{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier-Bold;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f5\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f6\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f7\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red135\green59\blue3;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red1\green25\blue49;\red39\green38\blue38;\red38\green38\blue38;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c60392\c30196\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c13333\c25098;\cssrgb\c20392\c20000\c19608;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21120\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx7366\tx7366\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
@article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Biodiversity is today threatened by many factors of which destruction and reduction of habitats are considered most important for terrestrial species. One way to counteract these threats is to establish reserves with restrictions on landuse and exploitation. However, very few reserves can be considered islands, wildlife species roam over large expanses , often via some density dependent dispersal process. As a consequence, habitat destruction, and exploitation, taking place outside will influence the species abundance inside the conservation area. The paper presents a theoretical model for analyzing this type of management problem. The model presented allows for both the common symmetric dispersal as well as what is called asymmetric dispersal between reserve and outside area. The main finding is that habitat destruction outside may not necessarily have negative impact upon the species abundance in the reserve. As a consequence, economic forces working in the direction of reducing the surrounding habitat have unclear effects on the species abundance within the protected area. We also find that harvest outside the reserve may have quite modest effect on the species abundance in the reserve. This underlines the attractiveness of reserves from a conservation viewpoint.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Claire W Armstrong\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{NATURAL RESOURCE MODELING\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Conservation of Wildlife. A bioeconomics Model of Wildlife Reserve Under the Pressure of Habitat Destruction and harvest Outside the Reserve.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{18\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Ecologists usually argue for a proactive approach to species conservation-it should start before a species is endangered and under substantial risk of extinction. In reality, however, conservation often only starts when species populations are already in a critical state. This may be the result of a policy process in which those actors who see only little or no benefits from conserving species try to delay conservation as long as possible to avoid its cost. A frequent consequence is that populations decline to critical levels so that once conservation policyset in due to legal obligations, political pressure or any other reason, additional conservation measures are required to re-establish the populations. We show that the cost associated with this policy process may be higher than those of a proactive policy. This is somewhat surprising because the cost of maintaining populations at a level at which they are not endangered may occur over a longer period. However, the cost of bringing species populations back to those levels may be so high that they outweigh the cost of the proactive approach. We develop simple cost functions that capture the main economic and ecological parameters relevant to our argument and apply them for an assessment of the cost of common hamster (Cricetus cricetus) conservation in the region of Mannheim, Germany. We find that a proactive approach would have saved between 17.2 and 36.4 mn compared to the existing policy where conservation was delayed until legal requirements forced local policy makers to implement a comprehensive hamster protection programme.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler and Florian V. Eppink and Frank W\'c3\'a4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10531-011-0013-4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09603115\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biodiversity and Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Common hamster, Conservation cost, Conservation management, Cost assessment, Proactive conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1045-1055\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Does proactive biodiversity conservation save cost?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{20\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Cruz-Rivera2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This work examines both positive and negative impacts that economic growth may have on the ecological dynamic and stability of a single biological species. Local extinction of the species may force the social planner to implement defensive expenditures aimed at conservation of the species population by means of habitat protection. The latter may lead to an ecological equilibrium that will be different from the natural equilibrium that would have arisen in the absence of human intervention. Moreover, the existence of such equilibrium is formally demonstrated and its stability properties are revised. Additionally, optimal-choice decision policyare constructed on the basis of Pontryagin's maximum principle. Under such policytogether with initial abundance of the species, the growth trajectories will move the system towards the fixed point of maximum species abundance.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erica Cruz-Rivera and Olga Vasilieva\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.tpb.2012.08.003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00405809\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Theoretical Population Biology\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Logistic model, Maximum principle, Non-consumptive utility, optimalcontrol, Optimal-choice policies, Saddle point property\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{123-135\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{22960017\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal policyaimed at stabilization of populations with logistic growth under human intervention\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{83\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Brock2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Resource-based model of species competition have been introduced recently as an alternative to the classical theory based on the LotcaVolterra methodological approach to species competition. We consider economic management of an ecosystem for a Tilman model of mechanistic resource-based species competition where the growth of species is limited by resource availability. We analyze the equilibrium ecosystem state resulting from Nature's equilibrium, and two basic management problems: the privately optimalmanagement problem and the socially optimalmanagement problem. Under private optimization agents do not take into account externalities associated with the effects of their management practices on ecosystem-service flows, while these effects are accounted for at the socially optimalmanagement. We show that in general three different equilibrium species specialization patterns emerge, we completely characterize these patterns for the ecologicalreconomic model with linear structure, and we provide policy rules so that the privately optimal state could be driven toward the socially-optimal or the natural equilibrium. We also develop an approach for unifying equilibrium price theory with Tilman ecological modeling and we prove the existence and analyze the stability of a price equilibrium for a stochastic discrete choice model of species specialization. Finally we discuss equilibrium specialization and policy issues for a generalized model where species and resource interact among themselves, as a conceptual basis for incorporating detailed ecological modeling into economic management.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{William Brock and Anastasios Xepapadeas\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1006rjeem.2001.1206\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{ecosystems, private optimum, resource-based competition, social optimum\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Ecosystem Management when Species Compete for Limiting resource\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{44\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Brock2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We develop a conceptual framework for valuing biodiversity from an economic perspective. We argue for a dynamic economic welfare measure of biodiversity that complements the literature on benefit-cost approaches and genetic distance/phylogenic tree approaches. Using a unified model of optimal economic management of an ecosystem under ecological and genetic constraints, we identify gains from management policyleading to a more diverse system, using the Bellman state valuation function of the problem. We show that a more diverse system could attain a higher value although the genetic distance of the species in the more diverse system could be almost zero.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{William A. Brock and Anastasios Xepapadeas\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Economic Review\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Valuing Biodiversity from an Economic Perspective: A Unified Economic, Ecological, and Genetic Approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{93\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.jstor.org/stable/3132144\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Baumgartner2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Biodiversity provides insurance against the uncertain provision of ecosystemservice which are being used by risk-averse economic agents. I present a conceptual ecological-economic model that combines (i) current results from ecology about the relationships between biodiversity, ecosystem functioning, and the provision of ecosystemservice with (ii) economic methods to study decision-making under uncertainty. In this framework I (1) determine the insurance value of biodiversity, (2) study the optimal allocation of funds in the trade-off between investing into biodiversity protection and the purchase of financial insurance, and (3) analyze the effect of different institutional regimes in the market for financial insurance on biodiversity protection. I conclude that biodiversity acts as a form of natural insurance for risk-averse ecosystem managers against the over-or under-provision with ecosystemservice. Therefore, biodiversity has an insurance value, which is a value component in addition to the usual value arguments, such as direct or indirect use or non-use values. In this respect, biodiversity and financial insurance are substitutes. Hence, the availability, and exact institutional design , of financial insurance influence the level of biodiversity protection.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Stefan Baumg\'e4rtner\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, ecosystemservice, ecosystem functioning, insurance, risk aversion, uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Insurance Value of Biodiversity in the Provision of ecosystemservice\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{20\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Augeraud2019,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents a benchmark stochastic endogenous growth model of an agricultural economy. Producing food requires land, and increasing the share of total land devoted to farming mechanically reduces the share of land devoted to biodiversity conservation. However, safeguarding a greater number of species guarantees better ecosystemservice, which in turn ensure lower volatility of agricultural productivity. The optimal conversion/conservation rule is explicitly characterized. Value of biodiversity is considered in its function of hedging against the volatility of agricultural production. Two aspects of biodiversity's value are examined. We first consider the total value of biodiversity as the welfare gain from biodiversity conservation, that is, the percentage increase in consumption that the society is willing to accept to give up the optimal level of biodiversity in favor of no biodiversity at all. We then consider the insurance value of biodiversity, extending the usual concepts to our stochastic dynamic framework, defining the insurance value of biodiversity as the change of the risk premium due to a marginal change in the level of biodiversity. To highlight the impact of risk on the optimal decision as in the value of biodiversity, we use the Epstein-Zin-Weil specification of preferences and represent preferences by a recursive utility function. This allows us to disentangle the effects of risk aversion and aversion to fluctuations. Thus, the preference for some rather uncertain outcomes and the propensity to smooth consumption over time are represented by two distinct parameters, and the effect of each of them are studied.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Emmanuelle Augeraud-V\'e9ron and Giorgio Fabbri and Katheline Schubert\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/ajae/aaz002\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{14678276\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, insurance value, recursive preferences, stochastic endogenous growth\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1068-1081\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford University Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Value of Biodiversity as an Insurance Device\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{101\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2019\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Engstrom2020,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper characterizes the value of biodiversity and ecosystem resilience by formalizing a stochastic dynamic bioeconomic model of pollinator diversity under climate changes, with an application to oil rapeseed production in the Stockholm region of Sweden. It studies the optimal provision of semi-natural habitat for two different pollinator bee species: bumble bees and solitary wild bees. It is found that, despite being less effective, solitary bees hold considerable resilience value due to the differences in how the two species respond to temperature shocks. The paper also discusses the role of spatial aspects, in particular the reduced pollination effectiveness due to spatially uneven allocation of semi-natural habitats. It is found that spatial unevenness leads to an increase in the habitat provision, with an attendant reduction in the resilience value of solitary bees.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Gustav Engstr\'f6m and \'c4sa Gren and Chuan Zhong Li and Chandra Kiran B. Krishnamurthy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1080/17421772.2020.1784988\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{17421780\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Spatial Economic Analysis\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{bioeconomic model, climate change, pollination service, resilience value, semi-natural habitat\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{238-261\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Routledge\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Valuing biodiversity and resilience: an application to pollinator diversity in the Stockholm region\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2020\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Swanson1994,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Timothy M Swanson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Oxford Economic Papers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{800-821\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Economics of Extinction Revisited and Revised: A Generalised Framework for the Analysis of the Problems of endangeredspecies and Biodiversity Losses\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{46\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1994\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Farrow1995,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Extinction defines a loss in biodiversity. An established economic model suggests that extinction can be avoided, even in common property settings, if the initial stock is sufficiently large that price and cost evolve to a non-extinction equilibrium. Alternatively, privatization has been suggested as a means to avoid extinction. The empirical validity of these conclusions are investigated by studying the collapse of two species that signaled the end of the United States frontier-the passenger pigeon and the buffalo. The historical studies suggest that the theoretical possibility of a non-extinction equilibrium is unlikely to hold in practice. Similarly, while privatization in a single species context may appear feasible, in a multi-species context the apparent profitability of privatization may be superseded and the species driven to extinction. The latter conclusion also depends on species-specific characteristics of minimum viable population size and habitat requirements.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Scott Farrow\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{American Bison, Common property, species, Extinction, Market forces, Non-extinction equilibrium, Passenger pigeon, Privatization, species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Extinction and market forces: two case studies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1995\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Barbier1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This article develops a model of wild-resource exploitation that includes both the standard bioeconomic properties of growth and harvest and a species-area relationship linked to habitat conversion. The model is developed for both a closed and an open economy. In the closed-economy model the characteristics of the long-run equilibrium are analysed in three versions of the model: the basic bioeconomic model, the inclusion of habitat conversion and the addition of biodiversity value. In the case of the open-economy model, we also examine the potential effects of trade interventions on the optimal exploitation of species and habitat conversion in the long run. The results confirm that the inclusion of habitat conversion as well as biodiversity value in a model of wild-resource exploitation yields significantly different outcomes than a basic bioeconomic model.\cf3 \
\cf4 \},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{EDWARD B. Barbier and CARL-ERIK Schulz\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/S1355770X97000144\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1355-770X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environment and Development Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Wildlife, biodiversity and trade\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bulte1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The Convention on International Trade in endangeredspecies (CITES) trade ban on ivory remains controversial despite a recent decision to permit some exports by three African countries. In this paper, we examine arguments opposing and supporting the trade ban, concluding that the case for maintaining the ban is strong. We demonstrate that permitting some trade is not a panacea because of potential strategic behavior, and that resuming restricted trade gives an impetus to illegal poaching by enhancing the possibility to launder illegal ivory. Analysis of the pre-ban data, and using the approach dynamic for a steady state, indicates that, when trade in ivory is allowed, poaching could drive the African elephant to extinction. The trade ban arrests this path of decline. Thus, care should be taken before lifting the trade ban.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erwin H Bulte and G Cornelis Van Kooten\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomics, Dynamic optimization, Elephant conservation, Ivory trade ban, Steady state\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{171-181\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Economic efficiency, resource conservation and the ivory trade ban\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{28\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The paper analyses the social optimalmanagement of terrestrial animal species where landuse cost, non-consumptive benefits of the wild species and nuisance cost, in addition to harvest profit, are taken into account. When there is harvest, it is demonstrated that increased profitability of the alternative landuse activities will result in less animals and habitat land in the longterm. It is also shown that the price effect of the harvest works different compared to the traditional Clark-model of marine resource. Because most terrestrial species represent no harvest profit and are not harvested, the non-harvest case is also analysed. Also now will improved profitability in the competing activities of keeping animals be a threat to the wild species as it triggers landuse conversion. Moreover, in absence of harvest profit, there are no potential counteracting forces due to the existence of harvest profit.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{bioeconomic modeling, optimal exploitation, terrestrial species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{45\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On the Optimal Exploitation of Terrestrial Animal Species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{13\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Alexander2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Conservation of endangeredspecies is a multifaceted problem with species facing pressure from competition for land, from direct exploitation and from a lack of effective management. A model is developed, using the African elephant as an example, to highlight the key economic factors that are influential in determining the fate of an endangeredspecies. Particular emphasis is placed on the role of non-consumptive value as a key component of species' survival. It is demonstrated that, in many cases, some existence value must be appropriated to the resource in order for extinction to be avoided.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Robert R Alexander\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomics, Conservation, endangeredspecies, Wildlife\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{259-269\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{modeling species extinction: the case for non-consumptive values\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{35\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{www.elsevier.com/locate/ecolecon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Albers2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper explores the impact of resource use on species competition and the resulting effect on the regeneration of a renewable resource. In the case of shifting cultivation, agricultural activities alter the subsequent recovery of biomass during fallow upon which agricultural fertility depends. This paper introduces a model of agriculture's impact on species competition and discontinuous ecological change, identifies conditions under which it is economically efficient to induce an ecological irreversibility, and compares these cases for farmers with and without land tenure security.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{H J Albers and M J Goldbach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agricultural development, Fallow, Swedden, Soil fertility\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{261-280\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Irreversible ecosystem change, species competition, and shifting cultivation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{www.elsevier.nlrlocaterECONbase\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Barbier2001,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Despite the rising concern over the economic cost of biological invasions, no general modeling approach of these cost has been developed. The purpose of this note is to develop such a framework, and to demonstrate how conventional bioeconomic model of interspecific competition, such as the predator-prey model, are essentially special cases. A model of the economic consequences of the biological invasion must therefore be based on two principles. First, the economic impacts imposed by the invader will depend on the exact nature of the interspecific interaction, and secondly, the correct measure of these impacts should be based on a comparison of the ex post and ex ante invasion scenarios. An important consideration is determining whether the spread, or dispersal, of the invading species in turn affects the location and movement of the resident species in the pre-existing habitat, or whether the interspecific competition occurs solely in the same habitat area without diffusive movement of either species, or finally, whether both species dispersal and some form of interspecific competition might occur as a result of an invasion.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Edward B Barbier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biological invasions, Diffusion, Interspecific competition, Predator-prey\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{197-202\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A note on the economics of biological invasions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{39\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{www.elsevier.com/locate/ecolecon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2001\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Horan2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Expansion of human populations and activities has caused increased conflicts between wildlife and humans. As a result, the distinction between resource and pest species has become blurry. We propose an economically-based classification of species based on a multi-use bioeconomic model. The classification of the steady state population of a species is shown to depend on both species' density and economic factors. We extend earlier work on multi-use (resource-pest) species by applying the theoretical model to a developing country context where propertyrights to wildlife are imperfectly enforced, so that second-best trade measures are often applied by the international community to promote conservation. Upon calibrating the model using data for the African elephant, we derive three further results. First, when comparing the optimal stock of a multi-use species to the open access stock, we find that the ranking in terms of abundance is ambiguous. Second, and consistent with existing literature on resource management in a second-best world, our case study supports the idea that trade bans have ambiguous effects on wildlife abundance. Third, due to a bifurcation effect characterizing the multi-use model's solution, strategic and temporary subsidizing by the North may enable them to free ride on conservation efforts of the South henceforth.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Richard D Horan and Erwin H Bulte\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{bioeconomics, elephants, management, nuisance, open access, pest, propertyrights, renewable resource, trade ban\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{251-272\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal and Open Access harvest of Multi-Use Species in a Second-Best World\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{28\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Antoci2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This work examines the impact that economic growth can have on biodiversity and on the ecological dynamic that would naturally emerge in the absence of human activity. The loss of biodiversity may induce policy makers to implement defensive actions that prevent single species from extinction. These defensive actions, however, may deeply alter the natural dynamic of interaction between species, leading to an ecological equilibrium that is completely different from the one that would exist in the absence of human intervention. This suggests that there might exist a conflict between preserving biodiversity (through stabilization of the ecological system) and preserving the intrinsic features of the ecological dynamic.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Angelo Antoci and Simone Borghesi and Paolo Russu\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.na.2005.02.097\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0362546X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Nonlinear Analysis\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Ecological stability,Economic dynamic,Natural dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Interaction between economic and ecological dynamic in an optimal economic growth model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{63\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Cruz-Rivera2013b,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This work introduces a finite-horizon bioeconomic growth model that links the biological evolution of a single species with the capital accumulation dynamic. The model is formulated as a problem of optimalcontrol with non-consumptive objective regarding the biological species. The application of the Pontryagin's maximum principle allows designing a decision policy for shortterm optimal planning and converts the optimalcontrol problem to a two-point boundary value problem. The latter is then solved numerically using the MATLAB routine bvp4c. The results of numerical simulations suggest the existence of optimal policycapable to enhance even (initially) scarce species populations within a finite period of time. This supplements previous studies of various scholars where such policywere designed for infinite horizon and required initial abundance of the species.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erica Cruz-Rivera and Olga Vasilieva and Mikhail Svinin\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2013.05.013\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03043800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Logistic model, Maximum principle, Non-consumptive utility, optimalcontrol, Shortterm planning, bvp4c MATLAB solver\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{273-280\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal shortterm policyfor protection of single biological species from local extinction\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{263\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Perrings1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The loss of resilience in system characterised by multiple equilibria is indicated by a discontinuous change in the state of the system, or the transition from one locally stable state corresponding to a particular mix of species to another state corresponding to a different mix of species. The resilience of the system (the state of the range in this example) may be influenced by the management regime through its impact on the response to disturbances. The paper shows that optimalmanagement of an event-driven system should be sensitive to the opportunities created by such events.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Charles Perrings and Brian Walker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biodiversity, resilience and the control of ecological-economic system: the case of fire-driven rangelands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Onal1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A measure of divergence (NAD) between the distribution of individuals in a community and a target distribution is presented. When the latter is uniform, NAD measures evenness and exhibits a strong correlation with the widely used Shannon index. However, NAD offers the capability to incorporate an arbitrary composition in an economic optimization model where the Shannon index is not applicable. An empirical application to optimum management of a multi species forest is presented, and the trade-off between ecological and economic objectives is investigated.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Hayri Onal\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Shannon index, absolute deviation, diversity, forest management, optimization\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Trade-off between Structural Diversity and Economic Objectives in Forest Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://ajae.oxfordjournals.org/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Li1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper attempts to develop a dynamic model of optimal biodiversity preservation in a stylized ecosystem. Species richness (number of species) is used as a measure of diversity and its interactions with the resource stock, consumptive extraction and preservation efforts are explored using a two-state variable optimalcontrol model. The analysis extends to the implications of a random threshold in species richness and the relationship between ecological and economic stability conditions. Dynamic paths and equilibrium characteristics are illustrated using numerical techniques.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Chuan-Zhong Li and Karl-Gustaf L\'c3\'b6fgren\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environment and Development Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A dynamic model of biodiversity preservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Weitzman1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper is about the economic theory of biodiversity preservation. A costeffective methodology is constructed, which results in a particular formula that can be used as a criterion to rank projects. The ranking criterion is sufficiently operational to be useful in suggesting what to look at when determining actual conservation priorities among endangeredspecies. At the same time, the formula is firmly rooted in a mathematically rigorous optimization framework, so that its theoretical underpinnings are clear. The underlying model, called the "Noah's Ark Problem," is intended to be a kind of canonical form that hones down to its analytical essence the problem of best preserving diversity under a limited budget constraint.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin L Weitzman\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Econometrica\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, diversity theory, endangeredspecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1279-1298\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Noah's Ark Problem\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{66\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Endres1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We focus on the effects of deforestation for agricultural purposes on biodiversity. This topic has been dealt with in the recent literature where forested land\uc0\u157  and biodiversity\'e2\u157  are treated as synonyms. In contrast to that, this paper distinguishes between forested land and forest\u157  itself, the latter being interpreted as a measure of biodiversity. The regenerative capacity of forest is modeled as a function of the own stock and of the habitat size. In particular, the threat of a given minimum viable population to be achieved in the course of the reduction of habitats is taken into account. The corresponding structure of a sustainability indicator is elaborated.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Alfred Endres and Volker Radke\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/BF01226141\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1617-7134\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Economics 1999 70:1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1-16\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{landuse, biodiversity, and sustainability\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF01226141\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Doherty1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We optimize the trade-off between economic and ecological concerns in conservation biology by using a novel method to link a spatially explicit individual-based model to a dynamicprogramming model. To date, few optimality model have been presented to optimize this trade-off, especially when the common currency cannot be easily measured in dollars. We use a population simulation model (e.g. spatially explicit individual-based model) to model a hypothetical forest bird population's response to different cutting and planting regimes. We then link these results to a dynamic-programming model to determine the optimal choice a manager should make at each time step to minimize revenue foregone by not harvest timber while maintaining a given population of birds. Our results show that if optimalmanagement choices are made further back in time, future (terminal) reward may be greater. As the end of the management period approaches, past management practices influence the terminal reward more than future practices can. Thus if past revenue lost is high, the future reward will be low as compared to when past revenue lost is low. The general strategy of setting some minimum viable population size and then using a population simulator linked to a dynamic-programming model to ask how to maintain such a population size with minimum economic loss should have nearly universal applicability in conservation biology.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Paul F. Doherty and Elizabeth A. Marschall and Thomas C. Grubb\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0921-8009(98)00057-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Conservation, dynamic-programming model, Economic,Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{349-358\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Balancing conservation and economic gain: a dynamic-programming approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{29\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kohn1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{When production destroys habitat, the number of species diminishes. endangeredspecies can be rescued by conservation biology and restoration ecology, which are represented in this paper by a production function for biological diversity. Until the number of species satis\'c2\'aees the classical species-area relationship for the total land area of the ecological economy, it is assumed that there are increasing returns to scale in rescuing species. It follows mathematically that there is a threshold level of biodiversity, which has implications comparable to ecological thresholds. There are also complementarities, because increases in the target number of species increase the optimal human population and the optimal level of total production. A numerical example is presented that yields results descriptive of the ecological economy of Costa Rica. #\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Robert E Kohn\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Socio-Economic Planning Sciences\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Thresholds and complementarities in an economic model of preserving and conserving biodiversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{33\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Polasky2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Existing methods for selecting reserve networks require data on the presence or absence of species at various sites. This information, however, is virtually always incomplete. In this paper, we analyze methods for choosing priority conservation areas when there is incomplete information about species distributions. We formulate a probabilistic model and find the reserve network that represents the greatest expected number of species. We compare the reserve network chosen using this approach with reserve networks chosen when the data is treated as if presence/absence information is known and traditional approaches are used. We find that the selection of sites differs when using probabilistic data to maximize the expected number of species represented versus using the traditional approaches. The broad geographic pattern of which sites are chosen remains similar across these different methods but some significant differences in site selection emerge when probabilities of species occurrences are not near 0 or 1.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Stephen Polasky and Jeffrey D. Camm and Andrew R. Solow and Blair Csuti and Denis White and Rugang Ding\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0006-3207(99)00171-8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Incomplete information, Reserve selection, Species distributions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1-10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Choosing reserve networks with incomplete species information\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{94\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Polasky2001,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Concerns that the loss of habitat have greatly increased species extinction rates has led to calls for establishing biological reserves to preserve key habitat. In this paper, we study reserve site selection for terrestrial vertebrates in Oregon using data on species ranges and land values. We find costeffective strategy that represent a maximum number of species for a given conservation budget. By varying the budget, we find the cost of obtaining various levels of representation. In general, effective conservation decision-making requires integrated analysis of both biological and economic data.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{S. Polasky and J. D. Camm and B. Garber-Yonts\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/3146981\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00237639\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{68-78\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{University of Wisconsin Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Selecting Biological Reserves costeffectively: An Application to Terrestrial Vertebrate Conservation in Oregon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{77\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2001\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Boscolo2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Fixed logging cost and administrative constraints on logging regulations can create nonconvexities in forestry production sets that include timber and nontimber products. management forest to produce multiple value at a landscape level, through the aggregation of stands that are completely or partially specialized in the production of timber or nontimber products, can consequently be superior to management system  that treat all stands uniformly, even when all stands are identical. Both fixed cost and administrative constraints are empirically important sources of nonconvexity in tropical rainforest. The former is more important when the nontimber product is carbon sequestration, while the latter is more important when the nontimber product is biodiversity protection. Uniform management appears to be superior for the joint production of timber and carbon sequestration, while specialized management might often be superior for the joint production of timber and biodiversity, at least at low discount rates.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Marco Boscolo and Jeffrey R. Vincent\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0095-0696(02)00034-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Carbon sequestration, Forest management, Nonconvexity, Timber, Tropical rainforest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{251-268\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Nonconvexities in the production of timber, biodiversity, and carbon sequestration\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{46\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Lichtenstein2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This study attempts to bridge the gap between studies that model costeffective land management for single species and studies that model large sets of species or biodiversity. We estimated a production possibility frontier for biodiversity and timber production using simulated annealing for a study area in the Coast Range of Oregon. The model produced spatially explicit land management regimes over a 100-year time horizon. Current landowner objectives were then simulated and compared to costeffective management along the production possibility frontier. The results suggest substantial potential for improving efficiency of forest land management in the study area.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mark E. Lichtenstein and Claire A. Montgomery\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/3147105\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00237639\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{56-73\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{University of Wisconsin Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biodiversity and timber in the Coast Range of Oregon: Inside the production possibility frontier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{79\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Onal2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This article presents a mathematical programming approach to determine a conservation strategy that maximizes preserved species' diversity under limited resource availability. Diversity is defined as the negative of total diversity loss given by the sum of genetic distances between extinct species and their closest surviving relatives. The model incorporates both species richness and genetic diversity as the conservation criteria when determining species preservation and site selection decisions. The article also presents two empirical applications to the conservation of 15 crane species and 208 genera including most of the endangered or threatened North American bird species.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Hayri \'d6nal\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/1467-8276.00132\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00029092\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{genetic distance, integerprogramming, preservation diversity, species conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{437-447\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Preservation of Species and Genetic Diversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{85\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=3564596\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Nalle2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Production of marketed commodities and protection of natural system often conflict. A focus on only one goal can result in large losses in other goals and may result in inefficient and unsustainable outcomes. In this paper, we develop a method that combines economic and ecological model in a dynamic and spatial analysis to evaluate landuse decisions and find costeffective alternatives for which it is not possible to do better on one objective without harming another objective. The method is demonstrated using timber production and species conservation on a forested landscape over a 100-year planning horizon. Current landuse strategy are simulated and compared with costeffective alternatives. The approach is compared to a static reserve approach, similar to previous studies, and found to produce substantially more efficient management strategy for the case study landscape.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Darek J. Nalle and Claire A. Montgomery and Jeffrey L. Arthur and Stephen Polasky and Nathan H. Schumaker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JEEM.2004.01.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Conservation, Forestry, Landscape ecology, Natural resource economics, Operations research,P roduction possibilities frontier, Resource policy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{997-1017\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Modeling joint production of wildlife and timber\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{48\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Costello2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We analyze the problem of choosing sites through time to include in a network of biological reserves for species conservation. When sites cannot all be protected immediately, and excluded sites are threatened by development, planning should factor in both expected biodiversity benefits of sites and development risk. We formulate this problem as a stochastic dynamic integerprogramming problem. We find that the timing of selections is critical; conservation budgets available up front yield significantly greater biodiversity protection. We also compare results using optimal and heuristic algorithms. The theory is applied to vertebrate and development threat data from southwestern California.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christopher Costello and Stephen Polasky\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.RESENEECO.2003.11.005\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0928-7655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, dynamic-programming, Reserve network, Threat\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{157-174\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{North-Holland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Dynamic reserve site selection\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eppink2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Wherever human landuse is located near sensitive natural areas, such as wetlands, it has significant impacts on biodiversity in those areas. Both species richness and species composition are affected. As biodiversity is lost, conservation efforts increase and act as a constraint on landuse options. Given these links, landuse is a central factor in an ecological-economic analysis of biodiversity. This paper presents a general, dynamic simulation model of the interaction between wetland biodiversity and landuse. Results for a set of scenarios suggest that urban growth is unsustainable and that there may be a conflict between conservation of distinct aspects of biodiversity.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Florian V. Eppink and Jeroen C.J.M. Van Den Bergh and Piet Rietveld\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2004.04.011\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3-4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bid-rent model, Integrated modeling, Land cover, Species richness, Wetlands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{201-216\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{modeling biodiversity and landuse: urban growth, agriculture and nature in a wetland area\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{51\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kassar2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We evaluate biodiversity in a real options framework, when the resource in use are substitutable. We examine optimal conservation decisions given that a biodiversity loss is irreversible and that future use value are uncertain. While species substitutability has been shown to reduce the value of diversity, we show that the flexibility associated with substitutability is a source of value. Marginal species value is decreasing in the number of species, but rising and convex in the value of the marginal species. As we show in the two-species homogenous model, increased volatility raises biodiversity value, and a positive correlation between species value both reduces the value of the pool of species and the value of biodiversity. The role played by the correlation between the value of a species and the value of other species, is reminiscent of the Beta of a financial asset. Just like an asset with a negative Beta derives additional value by providing insurance against fluctuations in the market portfolio, a species whose value tends to move in the opposite direction as the species in use derives additional value from its higher probability to be available for substitution if the value of the species in use diminishes.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Ilhem Kassar and Pierre Lasserre\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JEEM.2003.11.005\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Assets, Biodiversity, Biological portfolio Marginal value, Option value, Real options, Species, Substitutability\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{857-879\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Species preservation and biodiversity value: a real options approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{48\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Polasky2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Habitat loss and fragmentation are major threats to biodiversity. Establishing formal protected areas is one means of conserving habitat, but socioeconomic and political constraints limit the amount of land in such status. Addressing conservation issues on lands outside of formal protected areas is also necessary. In this paper we develop a spatially explicit model for analyzing the consequences of alternative landuse patterns on the persistence of various species and on market-oriented economic returns. The biological model uses habitat preferences, habitat area requirements, and dispersal ability for each species to predict the probability of persistence of that species given a landuse pattern. The economic model uses characteristics of the land unit and location to predict the value of commodity production given a landuse pattern. We use the combined biological and economic model to search for efficient landuse patterns in which the conservation outcome cannot be improved without lowering the value of commodity production. We illustrate our methods with an example that includes three alternative landuse, managed forestry, agriculture, and biological reserve (protected area), for a modeled landscape whose physical, biological, and economic characteristics are based on conditions found in the Willamette Basin in Oregon (USA). We find that a large fraction of conservation objectives can be achieved at little cost to the economic bottom line with thoughtful landuse planning. The degree of conflict between conservation and economic returns appears much less using our joint biological and economic modeling approach than using a reserve-site selection approach , which assumes that species survive only inside of reserves and economic activity occurs only outside of reserves.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Stephen Polasky and Erik Nelson and Eric Lonsdorf and Paul Fackler and Anthony Starfield\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{biological conservation and economic production, conserving biodiversity, economic-ecological model, efficiency frontier, integrated, landuse, working landscape\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1387-1401\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Conserving Species in a Working Landscape : landuse with Biological and Economic Objectives\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{15\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{VanderHeide2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents a critique and extension of Weitzman's costeffective criterion for ranking biodiversity-protecting projects. Weitzman's result, which is entirely based on genetic diversity, is argued to be able to give rise to incorrect policy advice on biodiversity protection. The reason is that ecological relationships are not included. In order to do so, dependent survival probabilities are introduced. It is shown that these give rise to a different ranking of biodiversity-protecting projects. Subsequently, alternative evaluation criteria are discussed.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{C. Martijn Van Der Heide and Jeroen C.J.M. Van Den Bergh and Ekko C. Van Ierland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2004.12.018\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Economic analysis, endangeredspecies, Evaluation criteria, Survival probabilities\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{218-223\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Extending Weitzman's economic ranking of biodiversity protection: combining ecological and genetic considerations\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{55\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Watzold2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The importance of compensation payments for biodiversity-enhancing landuse measures has grown over the past decade, particularly in connection with agri-environmental policy. Given that both the cost and the benefits of biodiversity-enhancing landuse measures are subject to spatial variation, the criterion of costeffective calls for spatially heterogeneous compensation payments. However, when deciding whether to implement uniform or heterogeneous compensation payments, the regulator has to compare the disadvantage of uniform payments in terms of costeffective with the disadvantages of spatially heterogeneous payments. To help resolve this issue, this paper provides a simple ecological-economic model that allows the reduced costeffective associated with uniform payments for biodiversity-enhancing landuse measures to be assessed for different types of benefit and cost functions.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Frank W\'e4tzold and Martin Drechsler\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10640-004-6979-6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1573-1502\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics 2005 31:1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{73-93\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatially Uniform versus Spatially Heterogeneous Compensation Payments for Biodiversity-Enhancing landuse Measures\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{31\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10640-004-6979-6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An approach is presented which integrates an economic and an ecological model for designing costeffective compensation payments for conservation of endangeredspecies in real landscapes. The approach is used to develop a costeffective payment scheme for conservation of an endangered butterfly species (Maculinea teleius) protected by the EU Habitats Directive in the region of Landau, Germany. The results of the case study are used to analyse the effect of metapopulation dynamic on the costeffective of payment schemes, to compare spatially homogeneous and heterogeneous payments, and to evaluate existing conservation policies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler and Frank W\'e4tzold and Karin Johst and Holger Bergmann and Josef Settele\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.BIOCON.2007.08.013\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Conservation, costeffective, Ecological-economic modeling, Metapopulation dynamic, Spatial heterogeneity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{174-186\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A model-based approach for designing costeffective compensation payments for conservation of endangeredspecies in real landscapes\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{140\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Juutinen2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We examine the relative merits of alternative forest biodiversity targets, which give different weights to species according to their conservation status and abundance. A site selection framework is used for choosing the habitat-protection strategy that maximizes biodiversity subject to an upper bound on funding with six alternative conservation goals. By using Finnish data on old-growth forest, we found that alternative conservation goals yield different benefit-cost tradeoffs. Goals relying on complementarity between protected stands result in great marginal cost at a high conservation level. Therefore, under these conditions it may not be economically efficient to establish a large conservation network to protect all species in a given area. In contrast, a large conservation network is more likely to be justified when the habitat-protection strategy focuses on species abundance. The trade-offs between alternative objectives are explicitly measured by incrementally varying the weights given to the species. We found that the targets for all species representation and species abundance can largely be met simultaneously. Protecting red-listed species reduces overall species coverage and species abundance particularly at low budget levels.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Artti Juutinen and Mikko M\'c3\'b6nkk\'c3\'b6nen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10640-006-9064-5/TABLES/1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09246460\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Forest conservation, Forest management, Reserve site selection, Species representation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{713-732\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Alternative targets and economic efficiency of selecting protected areas for biodiversity conservation in boreal forest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{37\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10640-006-9064-5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Pascual2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper explores the economic effects of biodiversity loss on marketable agricultural output for intensive agricultural systems, which require an increasing level of artificial capital inputs. A theoretical bioeconomic model is used to derive a hypothesis about the effect of the state of biodiversity on the optimal crop output both in the longer run and in the transitional path towards the steadystate equilibrium. The hypothesised positive relationship between biodiversity stock and optimal levels of crop output is empirically tested using a stochastic production frontier approach, based on data from a panel of UK specialised cereal farms for the period 1989-2000. The results support the theoretical hypothesis. Increases in biodiversity can lead to a continual outward shift in the output frontier (although at a decreasing rate), controlling for the relevant set of labour and capital inputs. Agricultural transition towards biodiversity conservation may be consistent with an increase in crop output in already biodiversity-poor modern agricultural landscapes.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Unai Pascual and Amani Omer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1477-9552.2007.00091.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1477-9552\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agrobiodiversity economics, biodiversity loss, intensification, sustainable agricultural, technical change\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{308-329\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biodiversity Conservation and Productivity in Intensive Agricultural Systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{58\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1477-9552.2007.00091.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1477-9552.2007.00091.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1477-9552.2007.00091.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper analyses a situation where the survival of an endangeredspecies depends on certain types of conservation measures being carried out regularly, yet there is financial uncertainty in the future periodical availability of a budget to finance the conservation measures. One option to insure against future budget uncertainty is to save money. To maximise the longterm survival of the endangeredspecies, it has to be decided in each period whether to spend the available money now or to allocate it to future use. The paper provides an ecological-economic model for this stochastic dynamic optimisation problem. The findings include that the available money should be allocated as evenly as possible among periods, which may require some precautionary saving in early periods to take uncertainty into account. Under certain conditions, however, increasing uncertainty may at least temporarily increase the optimal payment. Among other parameters, the amount of precautionary actions depends on the magnitude of natural variation in the species population.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler and Frank W\'c3\'a4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2006.02.018\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity conservation, Ecological-economic modeling, Precautionary saving, Stochastic dynamic-programming, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{255-266\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The optimal dynamic allocation of conservation funds under financial uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{61\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \ul \ulc3 @working_paper\ulnone \{\ul Rauscher2007\ulnone ,\
   abstract = \{The paper combines an economic-geography model of agglomeration and periphery with a model of species diversity and looks at optimal policyof biodiversity conservation. The subject of the paper is "natural" biodiversity, which is inevitably impaired by \ul anthropogenic\ulnone  impact. Thus, the economic and the ecological system compete for space and the question arises as to how this conflict should be resolved. The decisive parameters of the model are related to biological diversity (\ul endemism\ulnone  vs. redundancy of species) and the patterns of economic geography (centrifugal and centripetal forces). As regards the choice of environmental-policy instruments, it is shown that \ul Pigouvian\ulnone  taxes do not always establish the optimal allocation\},\
   author = \{Michael \ul Rauscher\ulnone  and Edward B \ul Barbier\ulnone \},\
   institution = \{\ul CESIFO\ulnone  Working Papers\},\
   title = \{Biodiversity and Geography\},\
   year = \{2007\},\
\}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kallio2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Safeguarding biodiversity has been one of the most important issues in environmental and forest policysince the 1990s. In Southern Finland, decisions concerning further actions for the preservation of forest biodiversity will be made in the coming years. To support policy making, we present a multi-regional model that is applicable in determining the economically optimal regional allocation of conservation sites. Three habitat quality model are evaluated to calculate habitat quality indices used as a surrogate for a biodiversity value in a forest sector model. The scenarios presented provide information about the economic impacts of conservation choices on the forest sector. The overall economic impacts of conservation depend on its scale and regional allocation. Conserving land with high biodiversity value can have less adverse impact on the forest sector than conservation of typical commercial forest sites. When optimizing conservation set-asides, we found that set-asides targeted to certain regions possessing higher/lower than average relative share of ecologically valuable land, caused lower/higher adverse economic impacts on the forest sector. Because it is expensive to search land suitable for conservation, these regions could be respectively favoured/avoided when asking forest owners to offer their land for the new conservation program in Southern Finland, which will be based on voluntariness.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{A. Maarit I. Kallio and Riitta H\'c3\'a4nninen and Nina Vainikainen and Sandra Luque\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2008.05.005\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Forest biodiversity protection, Forest sector, Habitat quality model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{232-243\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biodiversity value and the optimal location of forest conservation sites in Southern Finland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{67\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hartig2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Market-based instruments such as payments, auctions or tradable permits have been proposed as flexible and costeffective instruments for biodiversity conservation on private lands. Trading the service of conservation requires one to define a metric that determines the extent to which a conserved site adds to the regional conservation objective. Yet, while markets for conservation are widely discussed and increasingly applied, little research has been conducted on explicitly accounting for spatial ecological processes in the trading. In this paper, we use a coupled ecological-economic simulation model to examine how spatial connectivity may be considered in the financial incentives created by a market-based conservation scheme. landuse decisions, driven by changing conservation cost and the conservation market, are simulated by an agent-based model of landusers. On top of that, a metapopulation model evaluates the conservational success of the market. We find that optimal spatial incentives for agents correlate with species characteristics such as the dispersal distance, but they also depend on the spatio-temporal distribution of conservation cost. We conclude that a combined analysis of ecological and socio-economic conditions should be applied when designing market instruments to protect biodiversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Florian Hartig and Martin Drechsler\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.BIOCON.2008.12.014\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity conservation, Ecological-economic modeling, Market-based instruments, Payments, Spatial incentives, Tradable permits\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{779-788\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Smart spatial incentives for market-based conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{142\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eppink2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Migration dynamic and local biodiversity are interrelated in a way that is likely to affect patterns of regional specialisation. We assess this relationship with a New Economic Geography model that has been extended with biodiversity. Biodiversity is heterogeneous, and responds to habitat availability. The results indicate that a symmetric pattern of regional specialisation is more likely, and that additional equilibria may emerge as the marginal utility of biodiversity increases. In the policy analysis we focus on the case where the overall social optimum is symmetric and show that it can be supported as a non-cooperative Nash equilibrium. However, multiple Nash equilibria may exist.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Florian V. Eppink and Cees A. Withagen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.reseneeco.2008.09.007\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity conservation, Extinction risk, Monopolistic competition, Population dynamic, Regional specialisation, Reserve sites, Spatial economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{75-88\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatial patterns of biodiversity conservation in a multiregional general equilibrium model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{31\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper is concerned with the costeffective allocation of habitat for species under spatio-temporally heterogeneous economic development. To address the dynamic dimension of the problem we consider tradable development rights as the instrument of choice. A particular challenge in applying tradable development rights is that the conservation benefit of an individual habitat patch depends on its spatial relationship with other habitat patches and thus is an emergent rather than a fixed property. We analyse with a conceptual model the spatial and temporal dynamic of habitats in a region under a tradable development rights market that takes spatial interaction of habitats explicitly into account. In our analysis two different outcomes may emerge depending on the levels of spatial interaction and cost heterogeneity: an "ordered" structure where habitat patches are clustered in space and are stable over time, and a "disordered" structure where habitat patches are scattered in space and subject to high turnover of destruction and recreation. A high level of spatial interaction or a low level of cost heterogeneity favours an ordered structure while a low level of spatial interaction or a high level of cost heterogeneity favours a disordered structure.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler and Frank W\'e4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2008.07.019\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity conservation, Complex system, Cost heterogeneity, Ecological-economic model, Habitat banking, Pattern formation, Spatial interaction, Tradable development rights\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1083-1092\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Applying tradable permits to biodiversity conservation: Effects of space-dependent conservation benefits and cost heterogeneity on habitat allocation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{68\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \ul @working_paper\ulnone \{\ul Bertram2010\ulnone ,\
   abstract = \{Biodiversity is often adversely affected by human activities. This reduces social welfare but may be external to private economic decisions. Consequently, these external effects on biodiversity need to be considered explicitly in economic model, which is only partly reflected in the literature. So far, biodiversity is mostly treated only implicitly in multiple renewable resource model, or it is considered in terms of (genetic) variability or species richness only, but not in terms of \ul indices\ulnone  that simultaneously account for species richness and evenness. However, both constitute important dimensions of biodiversity. This paper integrates such biodiversity \ul indices\ulnone  into an optimalcontrol model, thus accounting for non-use value derived from the existence of multiple living resource. Main findings include that a unique equilibrium satisfying sufficient \ul optimality\ulnone  conditions can be determined although the biodiversity index is non-concave. Compared to a model setup with a monotonically increasing, concave utility function, steady state stocks are distributed more evenly and biodiversity is higher but the total number of individuals is lower when the biodiversity index is applied.\},\
   author = \{Christine Bertram\},\
   keywords = \{Biodiversity, Non-Concavity, optimalcontrol, Renewable resource\},\
   title = \{Integrating biodiversity \ul indices\ulnone  into a \ul multi\ulnone -species optimalcontrol model\},\
   year = \{2010\},\
\}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bauer2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Exurban areas have increasingly become zone of conflict as conservation and development compete for the same finite land resource. Conversion of natural areas to land dominated by human use results in loss, degradation, and fragmentation of wildlife habitat which often lead to species endangerment or even extinction. Recently, reserve site selection model have begun to integrate spatial attributes in order to design more compact and connected reserve networks that are thought to improve longterm species persistence. While these model are a good step forward to designing conservation reserve networks, they might not be adequate for use in exurban areas that consist of heterogeneous mosaics of landuse where habitat fragmentation already exists and not all parcels are available for preservation. This paper presents a species conservation framework that expands upon traditional reserve site selection model in three ways. First, because of the focus on exurban areas, the framework used here allows for land conversion within core habitat patches. Second, the framework provides a more robust assessment of connectivity among patches by accounting for landuse heterogeneity in the dispersal matrix. And third, the framework explicitly incorporates species population dynamic. We apply our conservation framework to the case of pond-breeding salamanders in an exurban community in Rhode Island, USA. Comparisons are made between the outcomes for uniform conservation policyand more flexible policythat accommodate ecological and economic heterogeneity. As expected, policythat offer more flexibility in the decision-making process are less costly in terms of foregone development. Conservation planners should consider core habitat patches, dispersal matrix, and spatial scale in their decision making. By not assessing the potential impact of dispersal barriers, reserve site selection model will result in conservation plans that may not protect species over the long term, particularly for species residing in highly fragmented landscapes such as those found in many exurban communities.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Dana Marie Bauer and Stephen K. Swallow and Peter W.C. Paton\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.RESENEECO.2009.11.012\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0928-7655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{conservationplanning, Economic-ecological modeling, landuse, Policy analysis, Wetlands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{180-202\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{North-Holland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{costeffective species conservation in exurban communities: A spatial analysis\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{32\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Monkonnen2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Setting aside parcels of land is the main conservation strategy to reduce the rate of biodiversity loss worldwide. Because funding for biological conservation is limited, it is important to distinguish the most efficient ways to use it. Here, we assess implications of alternative measures to conserve biodiversity in managed boreal forest landscapes. We calculated four alternative spatio-temporal scenarios and compared these to the current management regime over 100-year time period. In the alternative scenarios, a fixed amount of funding was invested in (1) permanent large reserves (each tens of ha in size), (2) permanent small reserves (each a few ha in size), (3) temporary small reserves (based on 10-year contracts with private land owners), and (4) green-tree retention (small groups of tree retained on clear-cuts). To assess biodiversity implications, we used habitat suitability indices to calculate overall habitat availability for five groups of red-listed and habitat-specific species associated with decaying spruce logs. The possibilities for timber harvest did not differ among the scenarios, but biodiversity performance was different. The scenarios with permanent reserves tended to outperform other scenarios, suggesting that conservation policybased on permanent reserves are the most cost-efficient in the long term. Results, however, varied among time scales and species groups. In the short term, a strategy of investment in temporary small reserves was the most efficient. Habitat for species associated with old spruce dead-wood and preferring shade was rare throughout all simulations, and therefore, it is likely that these species cannot be sustained in managed forest. Species that live on fresh dead-wood and are associated with forest edges coped well in all scenarios suggesting that such species will persist in managed landscapes without additional conservation efforts. Explicit definition of conservation objectives and time frames for conservation action are thus prerequisites for successful conservationplanning.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mikko M\'f6nkk\'f6nen and Pasi Reunanen and Janne S. Kotiaho and Artti Juutinen and Olli Pekka Tikkanen and Jari Kouki\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10342-010-0461-5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1612-4677\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{European Journal of Forest Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Forest management, Forestry, Habitat suitability, Plant Ecology, Plant Sciences, Red-listed species, SELES, Simulation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{717-727\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{costeffective strategy to conserve boreal forest biodiversity and longterm landscape-level maintenance of habitats\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{130\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10342-010-0461-5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Noack2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The temperate deciduous forest on the northern slopes of the Alborz Mountains has a high biological diversity and many endemic species. Huge areas are still old-growth forest but logging and grazing have degraded large parts of the forest. These degraded areas have low timber and forage yields and a species composition that differs from its natural state. In this study we present an analytical and a numerical solution to the forest management problem by optimizing the benefits of livestock production, timber harvest and biodiversity conservation. We focus on the ecological interactions rather than on administrative restrictions. Our findings are based both, on theoretical considerations and field investigations of ecological and economic parameters in Azerbaijan and Iran. The results of the numerical optimization suggest that it is optimal to separate timber and livestock production if biodiversity is not valued. Livestock rearing is preferable at high discount rates whereas timber production becomes more profitable at low discount rates. If the valuation of diversity exceeds a certain threshold a combination of timber production and livestock rearing is socially optimal since it yields a high biological diversity.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Frederik A.W. Noack and Michael Manthey and Jack H. Ruitenbeek and M. R.Marvie Mohadjer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2010.07.033\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Caspian Forest, Grazing, landuse specialization, Multiple-use forestry, Wood pasture\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{67-76\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Separate or mixed production of timber, livestock and biodiversity in the Caspian Forest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Brock2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{It has long been recognized that major drivers of biodiversity loss include both the harvest of wild species and the conversion of habitat for productive purposes. Land that is converted may or may not be lost as habitat for many species. In some cases, monoculture production for example, land conversion reduces the number niches and hence the level of biodiversity. In other cases, it has the opposite effect. We address the problem of anthropogenic biodiversity change due to the effects of both harvest rates and landuse decisions on landscape heterogeneity. If the optimal structure of the landscape is extremely homogeneous, forces of competitive exclusion will lead to a single surviving species. If it is extremely heterogeneous, multiple species will coexist, with each species exclusively dominating the patch type to which it is best suited. Where changes in biodiversity due to changes in landscape heterogeneity are not taken into account in landuse decisions, they are external effects of those decisions. We identify measures of these effects.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{William Brock and Ann Kinzig and Charles Perrings\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10640-009-9333-1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1573-1502\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Economic Policy, Economics, Environmental Economics, Environmental Law/Policy/Ecojustice, Environmental Management,general\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{43-58\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Modeling the Economics of Biodiversity and Environmental Heterogeneity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{46\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10640-009-9333-1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Orsi2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Conserving nature in the presence of humans is especially challenging in areas where livelihoods are largely based on locally available natural resource. The restoration of forest in such contexts calls for the identification of sites and actions that improve biodiversity protection, and ensure the provision of and accessibility to other forest-related ecosystemservice. This paper introduces an integer-linear programming (ILP) approach to identify reforestation priorities that achieve such goals. Applications of ILP to nature conservation are many, but only a few of them deal with the problem of restoration, and none of the available model considers the basic needs of the local population. Given constraints on a restoration budget, the potential conversion of productive lands and the travel time to reach harvestable forest, the model maximises the amount of reforestation area (weighted by priority values) and minimises the harvest of existing forest, while ensuring the conservation of landscape diversity, the satisfaction of timber demands and the stabilisation of erosion-prone land. As an input, suitability maps, generated through a combination of ecological criteria, are used to prioritise the selection of reforestation sites. An application to a 430km 2 area in Central Chiapas (Mexico) resulted in compact patches and thus a manageable reforestation plan. Acceptable trade-offs were found between the amount of soil stabilisation possible and the prioritisation goals, while uncertainty in the prioritisation scores did not significantly affect the results. We show that restoration actions can be spatially designed to benefit both nature and people with minimal losses on both sides.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Francesco Orsi and Richard L. Church and Davide Geneletti\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ENVSOFT.2011.07.008\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1364-8152\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental modeling & Software\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{ecosystemservice, Integer-linear programming (ILP), landuse allocation, Poverty,  Reforestation priorities, Spatial optimisation, Timber harvest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1622-1638\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Restoring forest landscapes for biodiversity conservation and rural livelihoods: A spatial optimisation model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mouysset2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{For several decades, significant changes in farmland biodiversity have been reported in Europe. Agriculture is a major driver of these modifications. Taking into account these environmental impacts, agriculture nowadays aims at a more sustainable way of producing which would reconcile its economic and ecological functions. The objective of this paper is to give insights into the impact of public policyon both conservation of biodiversity and farming production. We develop a macro-regional model combining community dynamic of 34 bird species impacted by agricultural landuse and an economic decision model. The ecological dynamic model is calibrated with the STOC (French Breeding Bird Survey) and AGRESTE (French landuse) databases while the economic model relies on the gross margins of the FADN (Farm Accountancy Data Network). We investigate the scenario based on subsidies and taxes. We show that simple economic instruments could be used to establish scenarios promoting economic performances and bird populations. It is pointed out how the sustainability of the policyis sensitive to the ecological and economic indicators used by the planner. The bioeconomical analysis shows several solutions for the ecology-economy trade-off. These results suggest that many possibilities are available to develop multi-functional sustainable agriculture.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L. Mouysset and L. Doyen and F. Jiguet and G. Allaire and F. Leger\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2010.12.006\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture, Biodiversity, Bioeconomic modeling, Bird, landuse, Sustainability\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{617-626\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Bioeconomic modeling for a sustainable management of biodiversity in agricultural lands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Barraquand2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{landuse change and land management intensification are major drivers of biodiversity loss, especially in agricultural landscapes, that cover a large and increasing share of the world's surface. Incentive-based agri-environmental policyare designed to influence farmers' landuse decisions in order to mitigate environmental degradation. This paper evaluates the effectiveness of agri-environmental schemes for biological conservation in a dynamic agricultural landscape under economic uncertainty. We develop a dynamic ecological economic model of agricultural landuse and spatially explicit population dynamic. We then relate policy(subsidies to grassland, taxation of agricultural intensity) to the ecological outcome (probability of persistence of a species of interest). We also analyze the associated trade-offs between agricultural production (in value) and biological conservation (in probability of persistence) at the landscape scale.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{F. Barraquand and V. Martinet\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2010.12.019\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture, Conservation, Dynamic landscape, Ecological-economic model, landuse change, Price volatility\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{910-920\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biological conservation in dynamic agricultural landscapes: Effectiveness of public policyand trade-offs with agricultural production\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Osgathorpe2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Crofting is a low intensity agricultural system restricted to the Highlands and Islands of northern Scotland typified by small scale mixed livestock production and rotational cropping activities. As with other low intensity farming system across Europe, crofting is changing in response to a range of socio-economic factors. This is having a negative impact on the populations of rare bumblebees that are associated with this agricultural system. In this paper we use an ecological-economic modeling approach to examine the likely impacts of introducing two different management options for conserving bumblebees on croft landuse and income. Two linear programming model were constructed to represent the predominant crofting system found in the Outer Hebrides, and varying constraints on bumblebee abundance were imposed to examine the trade-off between conservation and agricultural incomes. The model outputs illustrate that in some instances it is likely that both agricultural profits and bumblebee densities can be enhanced. We conclude that policy-makers should take into consideration the type of farming system when designing costeffective agri-environment policyfor low intensity farming systems, and that improvements in bee conservation are not necessarily in conflict with maintaining farm income.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Lynne M. Osgathorpe and Kirsty Park and Dave Goulson and Szvetlana Acs and Nick Hanley\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2011.01.010\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agri-environment policy, Bombus, Conservation economics, Crofting, Ecological-economic model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1162-1169\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The trade-off between agriculture and biodiversity in marginal areas: Can crofting and bumblebee conservation be reconciled?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The consideration of economic cost can dramatically influence the costeffective allocation of resource spent on the conservation of biodiversity. In the face of ecological and economic data scarcity, simple rules are needed for the design of costeffective habitat networks. A conceptual semi-analytical ecological-economic model is developed that is based on metapopulation theory and takes into account that the cost of conservation may be spatially heterogeneous and changing in time. The model is used to study trade-offs between amount, spatial connectivity and temporal continuity of habitat. The costeffective levels of habitat connectivity and continuity are determined as functions of species attributes and economic parameters like the distribution of conservation cost. The results are relevant for the design of costeffective conservation instruments.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.BIOCON.2010.10.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Cost heterogeneity, costeffective, Habitat network, Landscape dynamic, Metapopulation, Spatial structure, Trade-off\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{479-489\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Trade-offs in the design of costeffective habitat networks when conservation cost are variable in space and time\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{144\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mouysset2012,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Abstract: Biodiversity loss in farmlands is widely documented, and agriculture intensification has been identified as a main driver of this decline. Numerous agri-environmental policyhave been implemented to assess the negative impacts of agricultural intensification on biodiversity. However, most published studies focus on landuse scenarios, thus neglecting the economic dimension. We develop a bioeconomic spatially explicit modeling across 620 small French agricultural areas, which couples a public decision maker under budgetary constraint, regional economic agents in a context of uncertainty and breeding bird dynamic. Using dynamic model, we analyse the direct impacts of several current economic scenarios of the Common Agriculture Policy on common bird communities through five ecological indicators, all related to breeding populations of birds in farmlands: the farmland bird index (FBI), a generalist bird index (GBI), the Shannon diversity index, a community specialization index (CSI) and a community trophic index (CTI). We consider these indicators to scan various functional traits of bird communities. Trends in the different indicators are significantly contrasted pending on economic policy scenarios. Scenarios promoting intensive crops lead to small but specialized communities with more granivorous species, hence a low trophic level for the community. By contrast, promoting extensive grasslands increases the population size, enhances high trophic level but decreases community specialization. Evaluation of agricultural policyshould not rely on a single indicator per taxonomic group. In the context of potential reversal of current bird declines, bioeconomic modeling, involving farmland incomes, is proposed as a relevant support for decision making about sustainable agri-environmental policies. Promoting extensive grasslands is essential for the sustainable management of bird communities and agriculture. We, however, reveal more complex economic effects and synergies between public incentives, which appear to give interesting leverage for enhancing the bioeconomic effectiveness of agricultural policies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L. Mouysset and L. Doyen and F. Jiguet\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLIND.2011.08.012\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1470-160X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Indicators\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture, bioeconomic modeling, Biodiversity, Breeding bird survey, Farmland bird index, Indicators\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{209-221\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Different policy scenarios to promote various targets of biodiversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{14\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2012\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Armsworth2012,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Incentive payments to private landowners provide a common strategy to conserve biodiversity and enhance the supply of goods and services from ecosystems. To deliver costeffective improvements in biodiversity, payment schemes must trade-off inefficiencies that result from over-simplified policywith the administrative burden of implementing more complex incentive designs. We examine the effectiveness of different payment schemes using field parameterized, ecological economic model of extensive grazing farms. We focus on profit maximising farm management plans and use bird species as a policy-relevant indicator of biodiversity. Common policy simplifications result in a 49-100% loss in biodiversity benefits depending on the conservation target chosen. Failure to differentiate prices for conservation improvements in space is particularly problematic. Additional implementation cost that accompany more complicated policyare worth bearing even when these constitute a substantial proportion (70% or more) of the payments that would otherwise have been given to farmers.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Paul R. Armsworth and Szvetlana Acs and Martin Dallimer and Kevin J. Gaston and Nick Hanley and Paul Wilson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1461-0248.2012.01747.X/PDF\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1461023X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecology Letters\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agri-environment scheme, Agriculture, Biodiversity, costeffective, Ecological economics, Grazing, Incentive payment, Payments for Environmental Services, Trade-off curve\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{406-414\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{22385501\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The cost of policy simplification in conservation incentive programs\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{15\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01747.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01747.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01747.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2012\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mwakiwa2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Surface water is one of the constraining resource for herbivore populations in semi-arid regions. Artificial waterpoints are constructed by wildlife managers to supplement natural water supplies, to support herbivore populations. The aim of this paper is to analyse how a landowner may realize his ecological and economic goals by manipulating waterpoints for the management of an elephant population, a water-dependent species in the presence of water-independent species. We develop a theoretical bioeconomic framework to analyse the optimization of wildlife management objectives (in this case revenue generation from both consumptive and non-consumptive use and biodiversity conservation), using waterpoint construction as a control variable. The model provides a bioeconomic framework for analysing optimization problems where a control has direct effects on one herbivore species but indirect effects on the other. A landowner may be interested only in maximization of profits either from elephant offtake and/or tourism revenue, ignoring the negative effects that could be brought about by elephants to biodiversity. If the landowner does not take the indirect effects of waterpoints into consideration, then the game reserve management, as the authority entrusted with the sustainable management of the game reserve, might use economic instruments such as subsidies or taxes to the landowners to enforce sound waterpoint management.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Emmanuel Mwakiwa and Willem F. de Boer and John W. Hearne and Rob Slotow and Frank van Langevelde and Mike Peel and Cornelia C. Grant and Yolanda Pretorius and Johannes D. Stigter and Andrew K. Skidmore and Ignas M.A. Heitk\'c3\'b6nig and Henrik J. de Knegt and Edward M. Kohi and Nicky Knox and Herbert H.T. Prins\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JENVMAN.2012.10.029\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1095-8630\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Animals, Antelopes, Conservation of Natural resource, Elephants\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{352-361\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{23183144\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{J Environ Manage\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimization of wildlife management in a large game reserve through waterpoints manipulation: a bioeconomic analysis\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{114\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23183144/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mouysset2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Significant decline of biodiversity in farmlands has been reported for several decades. To limit the negative impact of agriculture, many agro-environmental schemes have been implemented, but their effectiveness remains controversial. In this context, the study of economic drivers is helpful to understand the role played by farming on biodiversity. The present paper analyzes the impact of risk aversion on farmland biodiversity. Here "risk aversion" means a cautious behavior of farmers facing uncertainty. We develop a bioeconomic model that articulates bird community dynamic and representative farmers selecting landuse within an uncertain macro-economic context. It is specialized and calibrated at a regional scale for France through national databases. The influence of risk aversion is assessed on ecological, agricultural, and economic outputs through projections at the 2050 horizon. A high enough risk aversion appears sufficient to both manage economic risk and promote ecological performance. This occurs through a diversification mechanism on regional landuse. However, economic calibration leads to a weak risk-aversion parameter, which is consistent with the current decline of farmland birds. Spatial disparities however suggest that public incentives could be necessary to reinforce the diversification and bioeconomic effectiveness.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L. Mouysset and L. Doyen and F. Jiguet\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1890/11-1887.1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1051-0761\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture / economics, Animals, Biodiversity, Biological, Birds / physiology, Conservation of Natural resource\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{96-109\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{23495639\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Ecol Appl\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{How does economic risk aversion affect biodiversity?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{23\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23495639/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Monkonen2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Production of marketed commodities and protection of biodiversity in natural system often conflict and thus the continuously expanding human needs for more goods and benefits from global ecosystem urgently calls for strategy to resolve this conflict. In this paper, we addressed what is the potential of a forest landscape to simultaneously produce habitats for species and economic returns, and how the conflict between habitat availability and timber production varies among taxa. Secondly, we aimed at revealing an optimal combination of management regimes that maximizes habitat availability for given levels of economic returns. We used multi-objective optimization tools to analyze data from a boreal forest landscape consisting of about 30,000 forest stands simulated 50 years into future. We included seven alternative management regimes, spanning from the recommended intensive forest management regime to complete set-aside of stands (protection), and ten different taxa representing a wide variety of habitat associations and social values. Our results demonstrate it is possible to achieve large improvements in habitat availability with little loss in economic returns. In general, providing dead-wood associated species with more habitats tended to be more expensive than providing requirements for other species. No management regime alone maximized habitat availability for the species, and systematic use of any single management regime resulted in considerable reductions in economic returns. Compared with an optimal combination of management regimes, a consistent application of the recommended management regime would result in 5% reduction in economic returns and up to 270% reduction in habitat availability. Thus, for all taxa a combination of management regimes was required to achieve the optimum. Refraining from silvicultural thinnings on a proportion of stands should be considered as a costeffective management in commercial forest to reconcile the conflict between economic returns and habitat required by species associated with dead-wood. In general, a viable strategy to maintain biodiversity in production landscapes would be to diversify management regimes. Our results emphasize the importance of careful landscape level forest management planning because optimal combinations of management regimes were taxon-specific. For cost-efficiency, the results call for balanced and correctly targeted strategy among habitat types.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mikko M\'f6nkk\'f6nen and Artti Juutinen and Adriano Mazziotta and Kaisa Miettinen and Dmitry Podkopaev and Pasi Reunanen and Hannu Salminen and Olli Pekka Tikkanen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JENVMAN.2013.12.021\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0301-4797\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, costeffective, Forest management, landuse planning, Multi-objective optimization\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{80-89\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{24463852\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatially dynamic forest management to sustain biodiversity and economic returns\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{134\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mouysset2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Substantial declines in farmland biodiversity have been reported in Europe for several decades. Agricultural changes have been identified as a main driver of these declines. Although different agrienvironmental schemes have been implemented, their positive effect on biodiversity is relatively unknown. This raises the question as to how to reconcile farming production and biodiversity conservation to operationalize a sustainable and multifunctional agriculture. We devised a bioeconomic model and conducted an analysis based on coviability of farmland biodiversity and agriculture. The coviability approach extended population viability analyses by including bioeconomic risk. Our model coupled stochastic dynamic of both biodiversity and farming landuse selected at the microlevel with public policyat the macrolevel on the basis of financial incentives (taxes or subsidies) for landuse. The coviability approach made it possible for us to evaluate bioeconomic risks of these public incentives through the probability of satisfying a mix of biodiversity and economic constraints over time. We calibrated the model and applied it to a community of 34 common birds in metropolitan France at the small agricultural regions scale. We identified different public policyand scenarios with tolerable (0-0%) agroecological risk and modeled their outcomes up to 2050. Budgetary, economic, and ecological (based on Farmland Bird Index) constraints were essential to understanding the set of viable public policies. Our results suggest that some combinations of taxes on cereals and subsidies on grasslands could be relevant to develop a multifunctional agriculture. Moreover, the flexibility and multicriteria viewpoint underlying the coviability approach may help in the implementation of adaptive management.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L. Mouysset and L. Doyen and F. Jiguet\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/cobi.12184\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{08888892\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Biology\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomics, Farming, French bird breeding survey, landuse modeling, Public policies,Viability\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{187-201\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{24405214\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{From population viability analysis to coviability of farmland biodiversity and agriculture\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{28\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mouysset2014b,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The future of agriculture constitutes a major challenge to the achievement of sustainable development. There are new perspectives on greening (focusing on ecological objectives) and sustainability (combining both ecological and social goals). Academic papers mainly study the ecological efficiency of agricultural public policies, while real public policies, such as the European Common Agricultural Policy, examine both ecological and social considerations. The objective of this paper is to consider economic, social and ecological objectives within the design of agricultural public policies. Using a bioeconomic model applied to France, we compare different optimal public strategy. We show that, when the biodiversity objectives are either very limited or very demanding, grassland subsidies are the best instruments from both green and sustainable points of view. However for medium objectives, reducing crops subsidies is the cheapest way to green the CAP, while subsidies on grasslands are the only strategy from a sustainability perspective. Our work highlights new trade-offs related to policy implementation, such as social acceptance or technical difficulties, and the spatial equity of performance among regions.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L. Mouysset\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2014.03.004\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture, Biodiversity, Bird, costeffective, landuse, Poverty, Public policy instrument\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{15-23\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Agricultural public policy: Green or sustainable?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{102\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Watzold_et_al2016,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Agri-environment schemes (AES) compensate farmers for landuse measures that are costly to them but beneficial to biodiversity and the environment. We present an ecological-economic modeling procedure for the design of costeffective AES to conserve grassland biodiversity, which is applicable to large areas, covers many endangeredspecies and grassland types, and includes several hundred different types of mowing regimes, grazing regimes, and combinations of mowing and grazing regimes as landuse measures. The modeling procedure also accounts for the spatial variations in the landuse measures' cost and in the effects on species and grassland types. The procedure's main novelty is that it considers variations of the cost and impacts on species and grassland types that arise from different timings of the landuse measures. Considering the spatial and the temporal dimension of landuse measures makes the modeling procedure spatiotemporally explicit. We demonstrate the power of the modeling procedure by evaluating an existing grassland AES in Saxony, Germany, and identify substantial improvements in terms of costeffective.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Frank W\'e4tzold and Martin Drechsler and Karin Johst and Melanie Mewes and Astrid Sturm\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/AJAE/AAV058\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{14678276\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = Biodiversity conservation, DSS-Ecopay, agri-\uc0\u144 environment schemes, birds, butterflies, costeffective, grassland, payments for environmental services\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{489-512\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford University Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A Novel, Spatiotemporally Explicit Ecological Economic Modeling Procedure for the Design of Cost-\uc0\u144 Effective Agri-Environment Schemes to Conserve Biodiversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{98\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=3575907\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2016\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2016,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Payments to compensate landowners for carrying out costly landuse measures that benefit endangered biodiversity have become an important policy instrument. When designing such payments, it is important to take into account that spatially connected habitats are more valuable for many species than isolated ones. One way to incentivize provision of connected habitats is to offer landowners an agglomeration bonus, that is, a bonus on top of payments they are receiving to conserve land if the land is spatially connected. Researchers have compared the costeffective of the agglomeration bonus with 2 alternatives: an all-or-nothing, agglomeration payment, where landowners receive a payment only if the conserved land parcels have a certain level of spatial connectivity, and a spatially homogeneous payment, where landowners receive a payment for conserved land parcels irrespective of their location. Their results show the agglomeration bonus is rarely the most costeffective option, and when it is, it is only slightly better than one of the alternatives. This suggests that the agglomeration bonus should not be given priority as a policy design option. However, this finding is based on consideration of only 1 species. We examined whether the same applied to 2 species, one for which the homogeneous payment is best and the other for which the agglomeration payment is most costeffective. We modified a published conceptual model so that we were able to assess the costeffective of payment schemes for 2 species and applied it to a grassland bird and a grassland butterfly in Germany that require the same habitat but have different spatial-connectivity needs. When conserving both species, the agglomeration bonus was more costeffective than the agglomeration and the homogeneous payment; thus, we showed that as a policy the agglomeration bonus is a useful conservation-payment option.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler and Henrik G. Smith and Astrid Sturm and Frank W\'c3\'a4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/COBI.12708\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1523-1739\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{agglomeration bonus, agglomeration payment, conservation instrument, ecological, economic modeling, payment scheme\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{894-899\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{26918707\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{costeffective of conservation payment schemes for species with different range sizes\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{30\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/cobi.12708 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/cobi.12708 https://conbio.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/cobi.12708\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2016\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Teillard2017,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Reconciling biodiversity conservation and food production may require the fine-tuning of both agricultural intensity and its spatial allocation. Here, we explored whether the optimization of allocation of intensity could improve food production and biodiversity outcomes. We developed a spatially explicit, multi-criteria optimization model for agricultural intensity allocation at the scale of France and at the resolution of small agricultural regions (SARs) with a mean area of 669.6\'c2\'a0km2. Three thousand allocations were randomly simulated and then optimized under three scenarios: intensification, extensification, and reallocation. Optimization was based on food production and biodiversity outcomes using several metrics, such as habitat specialization and trophic level, that reflect the composition of farmland bird communities. The optimization was based on derived statistical relationships between intensity and the production and biodiversity metrics at the SAR scale using national agricultural statistics and bird census data. Simulations showed that optimal allocations modulated the trade-off among criteria and led to increased efficiency, with optimal extensification increasing biodiversity and minimizing production losses. Furthermore, we revealed  win-no loss  solutions. For example, optimal intensification increased production with almost no biodiversity loss and optimal reallocation benefited biodiversity with almost no cost to production. A variety of agricultural intensity levels were necessary to maintain a diversity of farmland bird communities at the national scale. Although we demonstrate that optimal allocation of intensity can be a powerful means of reconciling diverse criteria at the national scale, its implementation will require new mechanisms for spatially targeted and coordinated policies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{F\'e9lix Teillard and Luc Doyen and Camille Dross and Fr\'e9d\'e9ric Jiguet and Muriel Tichit\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10113-016-0947-x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1436378X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Regional Environmental Change\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agri-environment schemes, Farmland bird index, Habitat specialization, Indicator, landuse and intensity, Pareto optimization\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1397-1408\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer Verlag\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal allocations of agricultural intensity reveal win-no loss solutions for food production and biodiversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2017\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{schotker2016,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The conservation of endangeredspecies and habitats frequently requires a certain type of landuse which, however, leads to opportunity cost compared to profit-maximising landuse. In such a setting biodiversity conservation organisations have two main options: (1) The 'buy alternative' where they buy the area of interest and either carry out the necessary landuse measures themselves or hire firms to do so, or (2) the 'borrow alternative' where they 'borrow' the land for conservation from private landowners who agree to carry out biodiversity-enhancing landuse measures over a certain period while the conservation organisation compensates them for their opportunity cost. Comparing both alternatives raises the question of budget efficiency, i.e. which alternative will lead to a higher level of biodiversity conservation for a given financial resource? In this paper we present a conceptual ecological-economic model, and then apply the model to analyse how changes in ecological and economic parameters influence the relative efficiency performance of the two alternatives.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Oliver Schottker and Karin Johst and Martin Drechsler and Frank W\'c3\'a4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2016.06.011\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agri-environment scheme, Conservation investment, costeffective, Ecological-economic modeling, Make-or-buy decision, Payments for environmental services\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{94-103\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Land for biodiversity conservation : To buy or borrow?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{129\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2016\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2017,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Payments to compensate land owners for landuse measures which are beneficial to biodiversity conservation but costly to them have become a prominent policy instrument. A key question in the design of such payment schemes is for how long the land owners shall commit themselves to carry out biodiversity-enhancing landuse measures, i.e. the length of contracts. From an ecological perspective, longer contracts seem better as they ensure that an area stays a suitable habitat for a longer time. However, with longer contracts land owners are likely to demand a higher annual compensation payment if they give up for a longer time their right to manage their land in a way they prefer. We analyse with a conceptual ecological-economic model how the costeffective of short versus long contract lengths depends on different ecological and economic parameters. We demonstrate the practical relevance of the model by applying it to the case of butterfly conservation in a region in Germany. Our results suggest that for the case study a 5-year contract is more costeffective than a 10-year contract. Overall, we find that when deciding about the contract length economic parameters (for example the budget size where high budgets favour long contract lengths) and ecological parameters (for example species colonisation rates where high rates favour short contract lengths) need to be considered.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler and Karin Johst and Frank W\'c3\'a4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.BIOCON.2017.01.014\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agri-environment schemes, Ecological-economic modeling, Payments for environmental services, Permanence, Temporal dimension\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{72-79\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The costeffective length of contracts for payments to compensate land owners for biodiversity conservation measures\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2017\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Surun2018,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Market-based instruments are gaining relevance for biodiversity conservation, since they promise higher costeffective than other instruments like planning. Previous studies have analysed the effectiveness of market-based instruments on single or multiple but independent species. On the example of tradable landuse permits we address an important issue for the first time: the conservation of interacting species (metacommunities). We consider two competing species where the superior competitor locally replaces the inferior competitor. Both species are structured as metapopulations, i.e. can go locally extinct while empty habitats can be recolonised by local populations on neighbouring habitats. Combining a spatially explicit and dynamic ecological-economic simulation model with cluster analysis we investigate how the coexistence of both species depends on the design of the tradable permit scheme, and how the effective scheme design (i.e. the scheme design that maximises coexistence) depends on the biological characteristics of the two species. We show that scheme designs that are effective for the conservation of single species may be ineffective for the conservation of two competing species and that the effectiveness of a scheme with regard to coexistence strongly depends on the relative performances of the two species with regard to their colonisation abilities and local extinction risks.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Cl\'e9ment Surun and Martin Drechsler\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2018.01.016\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Competition, Conservation, Ecological-economic model, Metacommunity, Tradable permits\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{189-196\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier B.V.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Effectiveness of Tradable Permits for the Conservation of Metacommunities With Two Competing Species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{147\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/322931805_Effectiveness_of_Tradable_Permits_for_the_Conservation_of_Metacommunities_With_Two_Competing_Species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2018\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Gerling2019,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We applied an ecological-economic modeling procedure to analyse the impact of organic versus conventional management of meadows on endangered bird and butterfly species in Saxony, Germany. Applying the modeling procedure enables us to focus on two aspects that hitherto have been neglected in analysing the impact of organic farming on biodiversity. (1) Possible differences in the timing of landuse between organic and conventional farming, and (2) differences in the uptake of agri-environment schemes (AES) by organic and conventional farmers. We found that for the species considered the difference in the impact of conventional and organic farming is minor, because in our case study region the timing of landuse on most areas with organic farming is very similar to the timing on areas with conventional farming. We also found that in comparison with conventional farmers, organic farmers generally face lower opportunity cost when implementing AES measures. Additionally, organic farmers are offered lower payments for such measures. These factors influence organic farmers   decisions to take part in AES, which in turn has an important impact on biodiversity conservation. In order to better conserve species it may be necessary to adapt the payment structure of AES with respect to organic farming.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Charlotte Gerling and Astrid Sturm and Frank W\'c3\'a4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.AGSY.2019.02.016\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0308-521X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural Systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agri-environment schemes, Biodiversity, DSS-Ecopay, Grassland, Model, Organic farming\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{424-434\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Ecological-economic modeling to compare the impact of organic and conventional farming on endangered grassland bird and butterfly species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{173\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2019\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Juutinen2019,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Economic development creates challenges for landuse planners in balancing between increasing the use of natural resource and safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystemservice. We developed and utilized multi-objective numeric optimization model to analyze the trade-offs between biodiversity and ecosystemservice (BES). The approach was used in the landuse planning process in northern Finland when selecting potential peat production sites as a part of the development of the regional master plan. We first quantified Net Present Value (NPV) of peat production, biodiversity, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and water emissions of peatlands. Then we applied multi-objective optimization to examine the trade-offs between the variables as well as to determine a cost-efficient selection of potential peat production sites, that is, a selection which would simultaneously generate the greatest possible economic returns and environmental benefits. Our results showed that with a relatively small decrease in NPV, a substantial decrease in biodiversity loss and a reduction in water emissions compared to the benchmark level could be attained. However, a significant decrease in GHG emissions resulted in a substantial decrease in NPV. We conclude that it is possible to significantly improve landuse management by applying multi-objective optimization in landuse planning.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Artti Juutinen and Miia Saarimaa and Paavo Ojanen and Sakari Sarkkola and Arto Haara and Jouni Karhu and Mika Nieminen and Kari Minkkinen and Timo Penttil\'c3\'a4 and Matti Laatikainen and Anne Tolvanen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOSER.2019.101027\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{2212-0416\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{ecosystemservice\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, ecosystemservice, GHG emissions, Multi-objective optimization, Peatlands, Water quality\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{101027\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Trade-offs between economic returns, biodiversity, and ecosystemservice in the selection of energy peat production sites\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{40\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2019\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mouysset2019,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Dealing with the erosion of terrestrial biodiversity has become of key importance in order to ensure ecosystem sustainability. Agricultural and forestry activities are one major anthropogenic driver of this decline. The underlying landuse changes result in the alteration of species habitats. In this context reconciling economic and ecological objectives of agricultural policyremains an ongoing challenge. In that respect, this paper presents the bioeconomic impacts of contrasted agricultural public policy scenarios. We developped a bioeconomic model coupling an ecological model of bird dynamic with a micro-economic model of land management estimated with French data. We assessed the performances of the scenarios based on 5 ecological indicators accounting for various structural and functionnal characteristics while economic performances refer to landuse incomes. First our study confirms the potential longterm synergies between several ecological and economic objectives in grassland-based policies. Second we points out the non-trivial effect of agroforestry policyon agricultural biodiversity: despite a positive overall impact on the biodiversity population size, it implies important structural changes within the community. The choice between grassland-based policysuch as in Agri-Environmental Schemes and agroforestry policywill thus depend on the ecological stakeholders   preferences.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L. Mouysset and C. Rais Assa and J. S. Ay and F. Jiguet and R. Lorrili\'c3\'a8re and L. Doyen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.LANDUSEPOL.2019.02.026\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{02648377\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{landuse Policy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomy, Biodiversity, landuse, Public policy, Scenarios\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{239-248\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Bioeconomic impacts of agroforestry policyin France\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{85\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/332485811_Bioeconomic_impacts_of_agroforestry_policies_in_France\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2019\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Vortkamp2020,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{One target of biological conservation is the protection of biodiversity in agricultural landscapes. However, in their landuse decisions, farmers are often challenged with balancing biodiversity maintenance and profit generation. Under the current agricultural system, this tends to result in intensive farming which destroys suitable habitat for wild species. Thus, the potential for landuse conflicts between agriculture and biological conservation is high. Previous studies that investigated the effects of subsidies and taxes suggest mild trade-offs between conservation and farming, thus favouring land-sharing solutions to biological conservation. However, many ecological-economic model that dealt with this issue neglect possible Allee effects, which have been found by ecologists to be a common phenomenon. The existence of Allee effects markedly alters predictions of ecological-economic model: we show that conservation success is accompanied by substantial losses in agricultural production. More suitable habitat is required to prevent extinction of the species of interest, and conservation measures should start before the population has declined to some critical value. We emphasize the effect of spatial fragmentation on population viability under an Allee effect, as a clumped area of suitable habitat protects a population much better from extinction than a fragmented mosaic of habitat patches.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Irina Vortkamp and Fr\'e9d\'e9ric Barraquand and Frank M. Hilker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLMODEL.2020.109208\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agri-environment schemes, Ecological-economic model, Fragmented landscape, Production Possibility Frontier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{109208\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Ecological Allee effects modulate optimal strategy for conservation in agricultural landscapes\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{435\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2020\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Drechsler2020,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Although biodiversity is generally diminishing, in some areas its conservation is expanding. However; the exact path of this expansion is uncertain. This can lead to problems of path-dependence and lock-in effects. Path dependence describes situations where history strongly influences present decisions and lock-in effects refer to situations where an earlier decision provides strong incentives to follow a particular path, even if more efficient alternatives are available later on. We develop a conceptual ecological-economic model to investigate which ecological and economic parameters favour the appearance of efficiency losses in biodiversity conservation due to path dependence and lock-in effects in a dynamic two-period two-region model. Generally we find that efficiency losses occur if there are signals that guide the first-period budget into a region that later turns out to be suboptimal if both time periods had been considered right from the beginning. To illustrate the conservation relevance of our findings, we present potential efficiency losses through path dependence in the hypothetical case of applying offsets to conserving the endangered Maculinea teleius butterfly near the city of Landau in Germany.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Martin Drechsler and Frank W\'c3\'a4tzold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2020.106652\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Dynamic optimisation, Ecological benefit, Ecological-economic model, Economic cost, Efficiency, Resource allocation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{106652\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biodiversity conservation in a dynamic world may lead to inefficiencies due to lock-in effects and path dependence\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{173\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2020\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \ul @working_paper\ulnone \{schottker,\
   author = \{Olivier \ul Schottker\ulnone  and Frank \ul Watzold\ulnone \},\
   title = \{Climate change and the costeffective governance mode for biodiversity conservation\},\
   Abstract = \{
\f2\fs25\fsmilli12800 \cb5 Optimal planning of biodiversity conservation and habitat location is paramount for the costeffective implementation of nature and biodiversity conservation measures. Established approaches for landuse planning and conservation site selection however might not be optimal in a world with changing climatic conditions. Generally, conservation organizations can choose one of two main governance modes: (1) buy land to implement conservation measures themselves on their land, or (2) compensate landowners for their voluntary provision of conservation measures on their land. We analyse in a conceptual ecological-economic simulation four different conservation site selection strategy in either of the two governance modes. Afterwards, we investigate the ecological and economic effectiveness of each governance-mode-strategy combination in a climatically changing environment, and in particular the influence of climate change characteristics. We show that the choice of the two governance modes and four patch selection strategy influences the costeffective of the implementation, generally suggesting that buying land, combined with the a species targeting patch selection strategy generates the highest costeffective.\},
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \
   year = \{2020\},\
keywords=\{ 
\f2\fs25\fsmilli12800 \cb5 agri-environment scheme, biodiversity, conservation payments, costeffective, land acquisition, make-or-buy decision, payments for environmental services, modes of governance
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \
\}\}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eichner2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In an integrated economy-ecosystem model humans choose their landuse and leave the residual land as habitat for three species forming a food chain. The size of habitat determines the diversity and abundance of species. That biodiversity generates, in turn, a flow of ecosystemservice with public-good characteristics for human consumption. The ecosystem submodel yields (rather than assumes!) population growth functions with each species' growth depending on the size of habitat. First the relationship between habitat and species growth (sustenance, decline and extinction) is explored. The laissez-faire economy is shown to result in an underprovision of habitat making the case for landuse restrictions for nature protection. The optimal landuse policy is characterized with full regard of ecosystem dynamic. Finally, labor-augmenting technical change is introduced to generate ever increasing pressure towards further habitat reductions. In the laissez-faire economy the habitat is consequently squeezed to zero in the long-run so that all species are doomed. Social optimality demands, however, to refrain from using all land for economic purposes despite ever growing labor productivity.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Thomas Eichner and R\'c3\'bcdiger Pethig\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jeem.2006.06.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00950696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, ecosystemservice, Habitat, landuse\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{707-720\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Economic landuse, ecosystemservice and microfounded species dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{52\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eichner2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper analyzes nature protection by a social planner under different 'utilitarian' social welfare functions. For that purpose we construct an integrated model of the economy and the ecosystem with explicit consideration of nonhuman species and with competition between human and nonhuman species for land and prey biomass. We characterize and compare the efficient allocations when social welfare is anthropocentric (only consumers have positive welfare weights), when social welfare is biocentric (only nonhuman species have positive welfare weights) and when social welfare is nonanthropocentric (all species have positive welfare weights). Not surprisingly, biocentric social welfare calls for suspending all economic activities. It is more important, however, that both anthropocentrism and nonanthropocentrism make the case for nature protection through different channels, though. Our analysis suggests that one may dispense with the concept of nonanthropocentric social welfare provided that in the anthropocentric framework the consumers' intrinsic valuation of nature is properly accounted for.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Thomas Eichner and R\'c3\'bcdiger Pethig\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s00355-005-0029-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{01761714\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Social Choice and Welfare\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{47-74\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Efficient nonanthropocentric nature protection\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eichner2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In an integrated dynamic general equilibrium model of the economy and the ecosystem humans and other species compete for land and prey biomass. Each submodel exhibits a price-driven competitive allocation mechanism, and the endogenously determined habitat is either openly accessible or privately owned. In both scenarios specific corrective taxes or subsidies are needed to internalize ecosystem externalities. An open access habitat causes additional inefficiencies through diverging prices for biomass and land in both subsystems. value of all ecosystem components are determined in an efficient steady state clarifying the role and the interplay of ecosystem prices and economic prices.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Thomas Eichner and R\'c3\'bcdiger Pethig\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JET.2009.01.008\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0022-0531\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Economic Theory\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biomass, ecosystemservice, Land\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1589-1616\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Pricing the ecosystem and taxing ecosystemservice: A general equilibrium approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{144\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hussain2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An integrated economic-ecological model is built to address tradeoffs between biodiversity conservation and two marketable rangeland ecosystemservice: cattle grazing and elk hunting. The ecology is represented by an eleven species food web in which individual optimizing plants and animals engage in competitive and predator/prey relationships. The ecological model defines a steadystate set of sustainable grazing and hunting options, and for each option, biodiversity is measured using an index defined over the eleven species. In linking the ecology to the economics, social welfare depends on grazing profits and hunter net benefits. The problem can be stated as maximizing economic welfare over two ecosystemservice, subject to their sustainable use and subject to a target level of biodiversity. A numerical application with economic and biological data from the Western United States is used to determine sustainable grazing and hunting options for alternative biodiversity levels, and to select the option that maximizes welfare.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{A. M.Tanvir Hussain and John Tschirhart\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2013.04.013\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, economic-ecological integration,ecosystemservice, Multispecies, Rangelands,Thresholds\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{116-127\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Economic-ecological tradeoffs among ecosystemservice and biodiversity conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{93\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Elalamy2019,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In this study, we developed a bioeconomic model coupling landuse and ecosystemservice to investigate the role of forest on a broad set of ecosystemservice, including carbon sequestration, soil quality and biodiversity. As a case study, the model was calibrated with economic, agronomic and ecological data from the Torrecchia Vecchia agroecosystem in Italy. In our analysis of optimal landuse allocation, the results showed that diversified landuse is required to provide a good balance between provisioning and non-provisioning ecosystemservice. More specifically, the development of woodlands alongside farming activities had a positive impact on the soil quality score and on landscape heterogeneity, which is a proxy for ecosystem function and resilience. These findings demonstrate that the inclusion of woodlands can alleviate the trade-offs between provisioning and non-provisioning services as they can generate profit while allowing for better soil quality and biodiversity relative to more intensive landuse. The study also confirms that a landscape-scale method can be used to investigate agroecosystem management problems when spatially explicit data is not available.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Yanis Elalamy and Luc Doyen and Lauriane Mouysset\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JENVMAN.2019.109607\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1095-8630\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of environmental management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture, Biodiversity, Conservation of Natural resource, Ecosystem, forest, Italy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{31600689\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{J Environ Manage\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Contribution of the landuse allocation model for agroecosystems: The case of Torrecchia Vecchia\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{252\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31600689/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2019\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Augustynczik2020,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Forest biodiversity underpins social welfare by preserving ecosystem multifunctionality and the provision of ecosystem goods and services. Still, the social value of biodiversity is not adequately incorporated into forest management and decision support model. This study proposes a novel approach for defining socially optimal biodiversity levels, wood supply and taxation schemes under climate change. We developed a partial equilibrium model to maximize consumers   and producers   surplus until the end of the century, including climate change impacts as productivity shocks in a coupled ecological-economic framework. In our model, we consider a first-best and a second-best taxation scheme to internalize the value of forest biodiversity into forest planning. The framework developed here was applied to a temperate forest landscape in southwestern Germany, where biodiversity has a high social value. Our results indicate an increasing consumption of wood and supply of biodiversity (up to 38.4 %) until the end of the century. Moreover, climate change may affect forest productivity, optimal harvest rates and taxation schemes. Crucially, current management is unable to capture the adequate social value of biodiversity and is inefficient under climate change. Policy mechanisms are therefore required to correct biodiversity provision in temperate forest landscapes.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Andrey Lessa Derci Augustynczik and Martin Gutsch and Marco Basile and Felicitas Suckow and Petra Lasch and Rasoul Yousefpour and Marc Hanewinkel\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2019.106504\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Climate change, ecosystemservice, Forest biodiversity, Forest planning, Optimal taxation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{106504\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Socially optimal forest management and biodiversity conservation in temperate forest under climate change\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{169\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2020\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Clark1973,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In this paper I construct and analyze a simple mathematical model for the commercial exploitation of a natural animal population. The model takes into account the response of the population to harvest pressure, the increasing harvest cost associated with decreasing population levels, and the preference of the harvesters for present over future revenues. The principal conclusion of the analysis is that, depending on certain easily stated biological and economic conditions, extermination of the entire population may appear as the most attractive policy, even to an individual resource owner.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Colin W. Clark\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1086/260090\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0022-3808\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Political Economy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{950-961\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{University of Chicago Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Profit Maximization and the Extinction of Animal Species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{81\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1973\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bulte2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{For a number of animal species, speculators are betting on future price increases by holding large stockpiles of commodities from the animal. We develop a model to explain this behavior. We derive conditions where it can be optimal for a speculator to induce poachers to harvest so rapidly as to make extinction of the species inevitable. Results from a simulation based on the black rhino indicate that "betting on extinction" may be profitable for reasonable parameter values. We also find that extinction is favored by low discount rates or high growth rates.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erwin H. Bulte and Charles F. Mason and Richard D. Horan\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/3147293\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00237639\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{460-471\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{University of Wisconsin Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Betting on extinction: endangeredspecies and speculation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{79\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/46552087_Betting_on_Extinction_Endangered_Species_and_Speculation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Alexander2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The bioeconomic analysis of endangeredspecies without consumptive value can be problematic when analysed with density-dependent model that assume a fixed environment size. Most bioeconomic model use harvest as a control variable, yet when modeling non-harvestable species, frequently the only variable under control of conservation ists is the quantity of habitat to be made available. The authors explore the implications of this in a model developed to analyse the potential population recovery of New Zealand's yellow-eyed penguin. The penguin faces severe competition with man for the terrestrial resource required for breeding and has declined in population to perilously low levels. The model was developed to estimate the landuse required for recovery and preservation of the species and to compare the results to current tourism-driven conservation efforts. It is demonstrated that land may serve as a useful control variable in bioeconomic model and that such a model may be useful for determining whether sufficient incentives exist to preserve a species. However, the model may generate less useful results for providing a specific estimate of the optimal allocation of land to such a species. .\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Robert R. Alexander and David W. Shields\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0304-3800(03)00226-6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03043800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic model, Conservation, Economics, endangeredspecies, New Zealand, Wildlife, Yellow-eyed penguin\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{193-201\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Using land as a control variable in density-dependent bioeconomic model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{170\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/222405483_Using_Land_as_a_Control_Variable_in_Density-Dependent_Bioeconomic_model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Schulz1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The paper analyses the conflict between wildlife conservation and its accompanying landuse in an East African context. In the model there are two agents. First, there is an agency management the wildlife and the habitat of the wildlife, which is referred to as parkland. On the other hand, there is the group of agro-pastoralists living in the vicinity of the wildlife habitat, whose landuse is referred to as rangelands. The parkland is used for tourism production and hunting, while the rangelands are used for agro-pastoral production. Both agents will find it beneficial to expand their landuse, so there is a landuse conflict. This is analysed in two steps. First, social optimality is studied; then we study the utilization of the wildlife and its accompanying landuse when there is no unified resource policy and the park agency follows its self-interest. The effects on the two different management schemes of changing economic conditions, such as the recommendations of the CITES convention and a programme subsidizing agro-pastoral production, are discussed.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Carl Erik Schulz and Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/S1355770X00000619\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1469-4395\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environment and Development Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{265-280\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Cambridge University Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Wildlife management, landuse and conflicts\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/environment-and-development-economics/article/abs/wildlife-management-landuse-and-conflicts/148EF95006DF77F39C0AF440A652C6F8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The paper analyzes the conflict between illegal and legal exploitation of wildlife species in an East African context. In the model there are two agents, an agency management a national park of fixed area and a group of local people living in the vicinity of the park. The park agency has the legal right to exploit the wildlife, while the local people hunt illegally. Because of the propertyrights, the park agency has incentives to invest in the stock of wildlife, while the behaviour of the local people is steered by shortterm considerations. The model is analyzed in two steps. Firstly, the market solution is studied. Next, the model is examined when user and propertyrights are given to the local people.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Jan Tore Solstad\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/S1355770X00000577\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1469-4395\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environment and Development Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{165-181\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Cambridge University Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Wildlife management, illegal hunting and conflicts. A bioeconomic analysis*\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/environment-and-development-economics/article/abs/wildlife-management-illegal-hunting-and-conflicts-a-bioeconomic-analysis/3B6941AE88F7DA5D1F88226EE8FBBD0B\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{VanKooten1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In this study, average and marginal approaches for determining optimal preservation of primary forest on British Columbia's coast are compared. When the market value from timber, mushrooms, etc., and nonmarket benefits (e.g., carbon sink, preservation values) of preserving old-growth forest are considered (where the opportunity cost of preserving such forest are the benefits of commercial forestry foregone), the average method recommends harvest of all remaining old growth. For the marginal approach, a deterministic optimalcontrol model is solved to compute socially optimal stocks of old growth. In this case, the numerical results indicate that large-scale conversion of old-growth forest cannot be justified on economic grounds.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{G. Cornelis Van Kooten and Erwin H. Bulte\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1139/X99-173\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00455067\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Canadian Journal of Forest Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1879-1890\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{ NRC Research Press Ottawa, Canada \},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{How much primary coastal temperate rain forest should society retain? Carbon uptake, recreation, and other values\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{29\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://cdnsciencepub.com/doi/abs/10.1139/x99-173\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kremer2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Many open-access resource, such as elephants, are used to produce storable goods. Anticipated future scarcity of these resource will increase current prices and poaching. This implies that, for given initial conditions, there may be rational expectations equilibria leading to both extinction and survival. The cheapest way for governments to eliminate extinction equilibria may be to commit to tough antipoaching measures if the population falls below a threshold. For governments without credibility, the cheapest way to eliminate extinction equilibria may be to accumulate a sufficient stockpile of the storable good and threaten to sell it should the population fall.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Michael Kremer and Charles Morcom\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1257/AER.90.1.212\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0002-8282\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Economic Review\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Renewable resource and Conservation: Demand and Supply the Commons\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{212-234\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{American Economic Association\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Elephants\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{90\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Tahvonen2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This study presents an optimal harvest model for the semi-domesticated reindeer (Rangifer t. tarandus) and its main winter energy source, ground lichens (Cladonia spp.). Females are divided into 17 age classes and males into 13. Reproduction is specified by a modified harmonic mean mating function and an age-specific reproduction success. Lichen availability determines individuals' overwinter weight decrease, natural mortality, the number of calves per females and calves' birth weight. The reindeer herding cooperative can choose the number of animals harvested from the 30 age/sex classes and is assumed to maximize the preset value of net income. The structured optimization model is solved as a fully dynamic system and for initial states that may not be close to the optimal steady state. This enables to study optimal recovery from overgrazed pastures and the optimality of the constant escapement policy. We show that given zero interest rate the optimal steadystate lichen density is less than 50% of the maximum sustainable yield level but nearly twice as high as empirically observed. Density dependence at optimal equilibrium is realized in calf weight and in the average number of calves per female. Optimal slaughtering is concentrated on six-month-old calves. Adult females are slaughtered at the age of 9.5 years and males at the age of 5.5 years. A moderate or high interest rate increases the steady state reindeer population but decreases pasture conditions. Dynamic solutions deviate from constant escapement, implying that the optimal recovery from initially overgrazed pastures is slower than suggested in existing studies and actual policy. The shadow value for males is three times higher than for females.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Olli Tahvonen and Jouko Kumpula and Antti Juhani Pekkarinen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2013.09.029\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03043800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Age-structured model, Herbivore-plant interactions, Optimal harvest, Overgrazing, Reindeer husbandry, Sex-structured model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{348-361\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest of an age-structured, two-sex herbivore-plant system\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{272\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Johannesen2019,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Carnivores-livestock interactions cause human-wildlife conflicts worldwide. These interactions are present under a wide range of ecological and economic circumstances. This paper studies the relationship between predation mortality and natural mortality, when food availability affects natural mortality of the livestock. Semi-domestic Saami reindeer (Rangifer t. tarandus) herding in Norway is used as a case study. When predation affects reindeer density, food competition among reindeer changes, which changes weights and natural mortality in the reindeer population. An age-structured bioeconomic model is presented, where this relationship is taken into account. While predation mortality may be additional to natural mortality in absence of food limitation, it can compensate for natural mortality in situations of food scarcity. Furthermore, due to density dependency in livestock weights, predation may increase the meat value of livestock. The paper analyzes how predation affects livestock production and economic performance under an optimized management scheme. One main result is that predation shifts the optimal harvest composition towards calf harvest and, therefore, the optimal stock composition among the different categories of animals. This contrasts findings in the existing bioeconomic literature. Furthermore, a changing harvest pattern towards calf harvest is an important adjustment that highly limits the negative impact on profit of predation.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anne Borge Johannesen and Jon Olaf Olaussen and Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10640-019-00318-x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15731502\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Ecological and economic compensation mechanisms, Food limitation, Livestock-predation model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{295-317\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer Netherlands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Livestock and Carnivores: Economic and Ecological Interactions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{74\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2019\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{
\f3\fs22 \cf5 \cb6 Buyuktahtakin2015
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \cb1 ,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Controlling invasivespecies is a highly complex problem defined by the biological characteristics of the organisms, the landscape context, and a management objective of minimizing invasion damages given limited financial resource. While bioeconomic optimization model provide a promising approach for invasivespecies control, current spatio-temporal optimization model omit key ecological details such as age structures \'94which could be essential to predict how populations grow and spread spatially over time and determine the most effective control strategy. We develop a novel age-structured optimization model as a spatial-dynamic decision framework for controlling invasivespecies. In particular, we propose a new carrying capacity sub-model, which allows us to take into account the biological competition among different age classes within the population. The potential use of the model is demonstrated on controlling the invasion of sericea (Lespedeza cuneata), a perennial legume threatening native grasslands in the Great Plains. The results show that incorporating age-structure into the model captures important biological characteristics of the species and leads to unexpected results such as multi-logistic population growth with multiple, sequential, and overlapping phases of logistic form. These new findings can contribute to understanding time-lags and invasion growth dynamic. Additionally, given budget constraints, utilizing control measures every 2 3\'c2\'a0years is found to be more effective than yearly control because of the time to reproductive maturity. Results of the bioeconomic optimization approach provide both ecological and economic insights into the control of invasivespecies. Furthermore, while the proposed model is specific enough to capture biological realism, it also has the potential to be generalized to a wide range of invasive plant and animal species under various management scenarios in order to identify the most efficient control strategy for management invasivespecies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Esra 
\f3\fs22 \cf5 \cb6 Buyuktahtakin
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1  and Eyy\'c3\'bcb Y. K\'c4\'b1b\'c4\'b1\'c5\'9f and Halil I. Cobuloglu and Gregory R. Houseman and J. Tanner Lampe\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10530-015-0893-4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15731464\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Invasions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Age-structure, Biological invasion control, invasivespecies, Multi-logistic growth, Non-linear optimization, Resource allocation, Seed bank, Sericea (Lespedeza cuneata L.), Spatio-temporal model, Weed management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{2545-2563\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Kluwer Academic Publishers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{An age-structured bioeconomic model of invasivespecies management: insights and strategy for optimalcontrol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{After coming close to extinction, the grey wolf (canislupus) has re-colonized Scandinavia during the last two decades. The current population numbers some 100-120 individuals, and is distributed in small packs along the Swedish-Norwegian border. However, with wolf re-colonization, several conflicts have arisen. One conflict is due to wolf predation on livestock, especially sheep and reindeer. Another is predation on wild ungulates. As the wolves have shown a strong preference for moose (Alces alces) in this respect, a smaller moose population is available for game hunting. The cost of increased moose predation by wolves is examined using a two-step process. First, we analyse the cost to landowners, comprising the loss of animals potentially available for hunting less the reduction in browsing damage associated with a smaller moose population. Second, we examine the problem from a broader point of view, where cost external to landowners and local communities are included. By far the most important cost here is damage related to collisions between moose and motor vehicles.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2005.09.020\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic analysis, Moose, Predation, Wolf\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{830-841\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The cost and benefits of animal predation: An analysis of Scandinavian wolf re-colonization\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{58\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Albers2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The spread of invasivespecies (IS) is an inherently spatial process, and management of invasivespecies occurs over spatially heterogeneous regions, but policy constraints can restrict management responses to be homogeneous across regions. Using a spatial bioeconomic model that includes a representation of invasivespecies ecology based on heterogeneous environments that are linked across space and time by human and ecological pathways, we compare optimal spatially heterogeneous policy to spatially uniform policy. We explore the magnitude and pattern of the policy differences with emphasis on the influence of different types of underlying heterogeneity across locations.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Heidi J. Albers and Carolyn Fischer and James N. Sanchirico\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.reseneeco.2010.04.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic modeling, Economic-ecological modeling, ecosystemservice, Metapopulation, optimalcontrol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{483-499\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{invasivespecies management in a spatially heterogeneous world: Effects of uniform policies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{32\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Boman2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Synopsis: Conservation of endangeredspecies often entails signi\'c2\'aecant cost, and, from a social perspective, many species can be characterized as both environmenta\'c3\'acbads' and`goodsand`goods'. This paper concerns the management of one such species, the Swedish wolf (canislupus). The fact that the wolf tends to disperse over a wide area causes speci\'c2\'aec management problems. The goal is to choose a harvest strategy, such that the discounted stream of net bene\'c2\'aets from the wolf populations in different geographical regions is maximized. The spatial dimension is involved through emigration and immigration. The solution to the management problem is shown to be a modi\'c2\'aecation of the classical rule of renewable resource exploitation, caused by the migration of wolves between regions. Empirically, this problem is solved by dividing Sweden into 13 geographical regions, and accounting for the existence values, harvest bene\'c2\'aets, and predation cost of the wolf population in each region. The results show that the geographical distribution of wolves, in absolute numbers, is very sensitive to the abundance of prey and to different assumptions regarding the economic parameters of the model. However, the relative distribution of wolves across the country is less sensitive to these assumptions. The highest densities of wolves were found in regions with low marginal cost, due to the abundance of prey in relation to the comparatively low number of human hunters utilizing the same prey as the wolves. The lowest population densities were found in regions with a low carrying capacity for the wolf or with high cost of depredation on reindeer.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mattias Boman and Jens Persson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Bioeconomics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{ecology, economics, emigration, existence value, geographical, harvest, immigration, use value\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Bioeconomics of the Spatial Distribution of an endangeredspecies: The Case of the Swedish Wolf Population\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Elofsson2017,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Abstract: The aim of this paper is to analyze the optimalmanagement of two ecologically interdependent, competing species, roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) and fallow deer (Dama dama). To this end, we develop a numerical stage-structured model, accounting for species-specific life history characteristics, gender, and stage-specific hunting values. Two contrasting management regimes are considered: optimal joint management of the two species and management where the decision maker is ignorant about interspecific competition. Results from our case study show that the presence of interspecific competition reduces roe deer population size and harvest by 30% and 47%, respectively, and reduces the net present value by 9%. High interspecific competition could lead to the exclusion of the roe deer from the area. In contrast, ignorance about the level and consequences of interspecific competition has no impact on harvest decisions and revenues. The explanation is the higher hunting benefits for fallow deer. Summary for Managers: Wildlife managers need bioeconomic model for decisions on ecologically interdependent species. This study investigates optimal joint management of roe and fallow deer when the fallow deer exerts a negative impact on roe deer due to interspecific competition. Results show that interspecific competition reduces the net present value of hunting at the study site by 9%. Regulations will not increase the net present value of hunting in a situation where the manager is ignorant of interspecific competition.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Katarina Elofsson and Justice Tei Mensah and Petter Kjellander\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/nrm.12137\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{19397445\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{bioeconomic modeling, fallow deer, hunting, interspecific competition, roe deer, stage-structured model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Rocky Mountain Mathematics Consortium\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{optimalmanagement of two ecologically interacting deer species : reality matters, beliefs don't\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{30\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2017\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Naevdal2012,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{During the last few decades wildlife trophy hunting has increasingly replaced traditional meat hunting. The economics of trophy hunting is analyzed with the Scandinavian moose (Alces alces) serving as an example. A four-stage model (calf, yearlings, adult female and adult male) is formulated. The calves, yearlings, and females are hunted for meat, while the males are hunted for trophies and where the demand for trophy hunting depends on price and quality. We find that trophy hunting boosts the male population and yields a high ratio of males to females. The main reason for this result is that we consider a management scheme with well defined propertyrights and not of the 'open-access' type, and where the key mechanism is the quality demand effect in trophy hunting. In an extended model where ecological theory of animal adoption to hunting is assumed to influence the biology through fertility we still find that trophy hunting boosts the male stock.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Eric Naevdal and Jon Olaf Olaussen and Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2011.10.026\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Behavioral ecology, Population model, Trophy hunting\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{194-205\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier B.V.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic model of trophy hunting\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{73\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/241100051_A_Bioeconomic_Model_of_Trophy_Hunting\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2012\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Olaussen2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A costbenefit analysis of moose (Alces alces) harvest in Scandinavia is presented within the framework of an age structured model with four categories of animals (calves, yearlings, adult females, and adult males). The paper aims to demonstrate the economic content of such a wildlife model and how this content may change under shifting economic and ecological conditions. Two different harvest regimes are explored: landowner profit maximization, where the combined benefit of harvest value and browsing damage is taken into account, and overall management, where the cost and damages of moose-vehicle collisions are taken into account as well. An empirical analysis of the Norwegian moose stock indicates that the present stock level is far too high compared with the overall management scenario, and that the composition of the harvest could be improved.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Jon Olaf Olaussen and Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.RESENEECO.2011.01.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{costbenefit analysis, Moose hunting, Stage model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{589-611\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A costbenefit analysis of moose harvest in Scandinavia. A stage structured modeling approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{33\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/227421694_A_costbenefit_analysis_of_moose_harvest_in_Scandinavia_A_stage_structured_modeling_approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents a bioeconomic analysis of a red deer population within a Norwegian institutional context. This population is managed by a well-defined manager, typically consisting of many landowners operating in a cooperative manner, with the goal of maximizing the present-value hunting related income while taking browsing and grazing damages into account. The red deer population is structured in five categories of animals (calves, female and male yearlings, adult females and adult males). It is shown that differences in the per-animal meat value and survival rates ('biological discounted' values) are instrumental in determining the optimal harvest composition. Fertility plays no direct role. It is argued that this is a general result working in stage-structured model with harvest values. In the numerical illustration it is shown that the optimal harvest pattern stays quite stable under various parameter changes. It is revealed which parameters and harvest restrictions that is most important. We also show that the current harvest pattern involves too much yearling harvest compared with the economically efficient level.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Vebj\'c3\'b8rn Veiberg and Asle Gauteplass and Jon Olaf Olaussen and Erling L. Meisingset and Atle Mysterud\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jenvman.2012.11.006\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03014797\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic analysis, costbenefit, Crop damage, Hunting, Landowner, Management, Meat value, Red deer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{179-188\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{23262406\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Balancing income and cost in red deer management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{115\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Sanchirico1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents a model of renewable resource exploitation that incorporates both intertemporal dynamic and spatial movement. The model combines the H. S. Gordon-Vernon Smith hypothesis of a rent dissipation process with Ricardian notions that resource are exploited across space in a pattern dependent upon relative profitabilities. The population structure is characterized in a manner consistent with modern biological ideas that stress patchiness, heterogeneity, and interconnections among and between patches. Generally, we find the equilibrium patterns of biomass and effort across the system to be dependent upon bioeconomic conditions within each patch and the nature of the biological dispersal mechanism between patches. We use simple examples to illustrate how the distribution of effort throughout the system reflects the heterogeneity and the spatial biological linkages.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{James N. Sanchirico and James E. Wilen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1006/jeem.1998.1060\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00950696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{129-150\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press Inc.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Bioeconomics of spatial exploitation in a patchy environment\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{37\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Virtala1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The optimal harvest rule for a lichen-reindeer system with stochastic environmental variation is compared to a corresponding deterministic model. It is found that the optimal harvest rule can be expressed as a function of lichen biomass only. The deterministic and stochastic solutions differ in three ways. Firstly, monality risk of the reindeer increases the discount rate. This results in a heavier use of the lichen resource and consequently the optimal target lichen biomass is in the stochastic model lower than in the deterministic case. Secondly, when the current lichen biomass is below the optimal target level, during lichen recovery more reindeer are left alive in the stochastic model, in order to avoid overharvest the reindeer population. Thirdly, if the amount of lichen is greater than the optimal biomass value, more animals can be left alive in the deterministic model in order to reduce the lichen biomass back to the optimal value.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Matti Virtala\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0304-3800(95)00136-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{harvest strategy, Model comparison, Plant-herbivore relationships\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{209-224\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{harvest a lichen-reindeer system in an uncertain environment\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{89\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Moxnes2001,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The problem of optimal adaptation of reindeer herds to rangelands under uncertain environmental conditions and measurement errors is studied by stochastic dynamic-programming (SDP) and by stochastic optimisation in policy space (SOPS). The study expands on earlier studies by including measurement error, body weights, alternatives to lichen in winter pastures, wastage of lichen by cratering reindeer, and by including both summer and winter pastures in the same model. The analysis shows that it is important to get precise estimates of lichen growth, alternatives to lichen are only important if their digestibility is above a minimum level, variable cost only matter for the optimal herd size when summer grazing is limiting, modest discounting has little effect, the policy is not sensitive to the degree of natural variation, while the value of reindeer husbandry is significantly reduced by increasing climatic variation, the policy is sensitive to measurement error, and there is a considerable value of higher precision in measurements.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erling Moxnes and \'c3\'96je Danell and Eldar Gaare and Jouko Kumpula\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0304-3800(01)00393-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03043800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{harvest strategy, Management, Measurement error, Reindeer, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{225-241\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal strategy for the use of reindeer rangelands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{145\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/223722636_Optimal_strategy_for_the_use_of_reindeer_rangelands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2001\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Clark1982,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A mathematical model is presented for the problem of optimal sex-selective harvest of wildlife populations. The model suggests that commonly accepted males-only harvest regulations serve to maximize yields only under special circumstances. The form of a yield maximizing policy depends upon the specific density dependence mechanisms affecting the population.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Colin W. Clark and David E. Tait\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0304-3800(82)90021-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3-4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{251-260\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Sex-selective harvest of wildlife populations\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{14\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1982\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Johannesen2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Integrated conservation and development projects (ICDPs) have frequently been established in Africa to improve wildlife conservation and the welfare of local communities. However, their effectiveness has been hampered by conflicts and illegal harvest. This paper focuses on the strategic interaction between the manager of a protected area and a group of local people. The park manager benefits from wildlife through tourism and hunting. The local people benefit through hunting, but also bear the wildlife damage. ICDPs relying on money transfers to the local people from the park manager may or may not promote wildlife conservation. In addition, the welfare of the local people are ambiguous.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anne Borge Johannesen and Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.RESENEECO.2004.10.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0928-7655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Conflicts, Conservation, Local welfare, Wildlife\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{208-226\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{North-Holland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Tourism, poaching and wildlife conservation: what can integrated conservation and development projects accomplish?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{27\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{MilnerGulland1992,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{1. The decline of Africa's rhinos and elephants over the past decade has alarmed conservationists, yet little is known about the interaction between law enforcement and the economic incentives for illegal exploitation. This study model the relation- ships between financial gains, detection and penalties for poaching rhinos and elephants in Luangwa Valley, Zambia during 1979-85. 2. We explore how sentencing strategy affect the decisions of poachers in relation to changes in detection rate, penalty and economic variables. We show that a penalty which varies with the output of a poacher is, in theory, a more effective tool against poaching than a fixed penalty. However, the probability of capture is a highly significant factor in the poacher's decision to hunt. 3. The incentives to poach are modelled for an open access situation, the industry structure for a local poacher, and for a monopolist who employs organized gangs. Organized and local gangs have very different reactions to law enforcement. Local poachers will respond to local investment schemes, but the deterrence of organized gangs can only be achieved with improved law enforcement operations.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{E. J. Milner-Gulland and N. Leader-Williams\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/2404508\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00218901\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{The Journal of Applied Ecology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{388\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{JSTOR\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A Model of Incentives for the Illegal Exploitation of Black Rhinos and Elephants: Poaching Pays in Luangwa Valley, Zambia\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{29\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1992\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We explored the longterm effect of various management strategy for a mountain ungulate, the chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra), living in a mosaic of protected reserves and hunting areas. The chamois occurs in the French Alps at high densities within protected reserves but is heavily hunted in the surrounding areas. Extensive demographic studies were used for developing a model of the population in the reserve area, as well as for the hunting area. The chamois in the reserve has value for tourism and conservation, whereas the chamois outside the reserve has mainly hunting value. optimalmanagement of the overall system consisting of reserve and hunting areas depends on the management objective: either a simple maximization of the value of hunted chamois, or the value of hunted chamois together with the value of the chamois in the reserve. We explored how optimal harvest strategy are affected by the relative hunting value of the sexes and the relative nonconsumptive value of the chamois inside the reserve. A male-biased, sex-specific harvest rate was generally found to be optimal, a bias which was larger when the value of the chamois in the reserve was included. Movement rates and sex ratio play critical roles in such systems, and should therefore be studied more than they typically are. We suggest experimental approaches to test the critical parameters of the model.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Nigel G Yoccoz and Nils Chr Stenseth and Jean-Michel Gaillard and Anne Loison and Anne Loison4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{French Alps, Rupicapra rupicapra, bioeconomics, chamois, conservation biology, movement rates, polygyny, population dynamic, sex ratio, sex-specific harvest, sustainable development, sustainable harvest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1-199\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Management of Chamois (Rupicapra Rupicapra) Moving between a Protected Core Area and a Hunting Area\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Wild animals can represent both value and nuisance. We consider the moose (Alces alces), which due to seasonal migration causes browsing damage in some areas, while creating hunting value in other areas. We first explore a situation when harvest, following today's practice in Norway, only takes place in the fall. Next, the season is extended to include winter harvest. It is shown how this redistributes harvest benefits between areas and landowners, and under which conditions total net benefit increases. The model is illustrated by a real life example from the Swe-Nor moose region some 250 kilometers north of Oslo, Norway.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Jon Olaf Olaussen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{34-50\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{management a Migratory Species That Is Both a Value and a Pest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{81\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://www.jstor.orgURL:http://www.jstor.org/stable/4129702\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Sims2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Predictions of damages and damages that might be avoided from invasivespecies control policyare marred by uncertainty that has both economic and ecological roots. Public policydirected at invasivespecies typically lag their detection. One possible explanation is the coupling of uncertainty with political and economic commitments creates an incentive to delay a policy response in order to gain more information on how damaging the invasion will be - a " wait and see" approach. We investigate whether this rationale is justified by identifying invasion characteristics that require the wait and see approach often adopted by lawmakers and government agencies. The model shows that the source of uncertainty and degree of policy irreversibility matter and allows the classification of invasivespecies with a low rate of spread and low levels of uncertainty as those where policycan be optimally timed in the future\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Charles Sims and David Finnoff\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.reseneeco.2013.02.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{invasivespecies spread, Irreversibilities, Option value, Policy implementation, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{235-255\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{When is a " wait and see" approach to invasivespecies justified?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{35\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Zivin2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Many wildlife populations cause damage in agricultural system but are also valued resource, either for their recreational value or for their existence and contribution to biological diversity. As a result, the nature of a given species - whether it is considered a 'pest' or a 'resource' - is often determined by the economic and regulatory environment in which the species exists. In this paper we develop a bioeconomic model of one such environment. We apply the model to the case of feral pigs in California rangeland and consider the potential for recreational hunting as a policy for population control.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Joshua Zivin and Brent M. Hueth and David Zilberman\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1006/jeem.1999.1101\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00950696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{189-204\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press Inc.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{management a multiple-use resource: The case of feral pig management in California rangeland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{39\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Horan2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Richard Horan and Christopher A. Wolf and Eli P. Fenichel and Kenneth H. Mathews\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/j.1467-9353.2005.00248.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{10587195\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Review of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{483-490\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatial management of wildlife disease\},\
   abstract = \{
\f4 \cf3 \cb5 The spread of wildlife diseases is a major threat to livestock, human health, resource-based recreation, and biodiversity conservation (Cleaveland, Laurenson, and Taylor). The development of economically sound wildlife disease-management strategy requires an understanding of the links between ecological functions (e.g., disease transmission and wildlife dispersal) and economic choices, and the associated tradeoffs. Spatial linkages are particularly relevant. Yet while ecologists have long-argued that space is important (Hudson et al.), prior economic work has largely ignored spatial issues.\
\
For instance, Horan and Wolf analyzed a case study of bovine tuberculosis (bTB) in Michigan deer, a problem where the disease appears to be confined to a single, spatially confined, wildlife population\'97an island. But wildlife disease matters generally are not spatially confined. Barlow, in analyzing bTB in possums in New Zealand, accounted for immigration of susceptible possums into a disease reservoir. However, he modeled immigration as fixed and unaffected by management. Bicknell, Wilen, and Howitt, also focusing on possums in New Zealand, developed a model that incorporates simple density-dependent net migration. This allowed the authors to account for endogenous immigration when deriving optimal culling strategy.\},
\f1 \cf4 \cb1  \cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{27\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Sharov1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Exotic pests are serious threats to North American ecosystems; thus, economic analysis of decisions about eradication, stopping, or slowing their spread may be critical to ecosystem management. We present a model to analyze cost and benefits of altering the spread rates of invading organisms. The target rate of population expansion (which may be positive or negative) is considered as a control function, and the present value of net benefits from management population spread is the criterion that is maximized. Two local maxima of the present value of net benefits are possible: one for eradication and another for slowing the spread. If both maxima are present, their heights are compared, and the strategy that corresponds to a higher value is selected. The optimal strategy changes from eradication to slowing the spread to finally doing nothing, as the area occupied by the species increases, the negative impact of the pest per unit area decreases, or the discount rate increases. The model shows that slowing population spread is a viable strategy of pest control even when a relatively small area remains uninfested. Stopping population spread is not an optimal strategy unless natural barriers to population spread exist. The model is applied to management the spread of gypsymoth (Lymantria dispar) populations in the United States.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Alexei A. Sharov and Andrew M. Liebhold\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/2641270\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{10510761\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Barrier zone, Bioeconomics, Biological invasion, costbenefit model, Eradication, Exotic species, gypsymoth, Lymantria dispar, Pest control, Spread rate\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{833-845\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Ecological Society of America\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Bioeconomics of management the spread of exotic pest species with barrier zones\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Sanchirico2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In addressing the problem of invasivespecies, decision makers have a variety of options, each targeting different aspects as it evolves over time and space. We develop a 2-region bioeconomic model that includes several transmission pathways that spread the invader. Within each region, inspections, removal efforts, and sustainable land management practices, including habitat restoration and less damaging production activities, are available to the regulator. We investigate the implications of different transmission pathways and second-best policyon the control patterns and invasive populations. Second-best settings where certain controls are not available to the regulator result in large distortions on the optimal use of the land. Overall, we find that non-linear interactions between regions, pathways, and controls are significant determinants of the optimalmanagement of invasivespecies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{James N. Sanchirico and Heidi J. Albers and Carolyn Fischer and Conrad Coleman\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10640-009-9326-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09246460\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic, Economic-ecological modeling, ecosystemservice, Metapopulation, optimalcontrol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{517-535\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer Netherlands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatial management of invasivespecies: Pathways and policy options\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{45\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bhat1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The migratory nature of nuisance wildlife populations creates a special management problem by imposing a negative diffusion externality on landowners undertaking control efforts. This paper reviews three cost-minimizing wildlife-control model, each internalizing the diffusion externality under different management scenarios, namely, unilateral management, bilateral management, and centralized management. The three management scenarios lead to different optimal behaviors. Property owners exerting unilateral control must leave some wildlife untrapped to generate sufficient population pressure against the flow of continual immigration from neighboring populations. Analysis of the bilateral model indicates that noncooperating neighboring landowners having varying pay-off functions will end up with leaving all wildlife untrapped in their parcels. Under the centralized management scenario, landowners find it most profitable to collectively delegate the control responsibility of an entire watershed to a single manager.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mahadev G. Bhat and Ray G. Huffaker and Suzanne M. Lenhart\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0304-3800(95)00169-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Control strategy, Game theory, Management strategy, Migration\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{215-224\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Controlling transboundary wildlife damage: modeling under alternative management scenarios\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{92\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bhat1993,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The beaver (Castor canadensis) population in the United States has caused severe damage to valuable timberland through dam-building and flooding of bottomland forest. Traditionally, beavers have provided a source of livelihood to a small group of people. However, recent low pelt prices have failed to stimulate adequate trapping pressure, and thus have resulted in increased beaver populations and damage losses. The low trapping pressure has left the burden of nuisance control on property owners. Since beaver populations are mobile, beaver extermination in controlled parcels results in beaver immigration from neighboring less controlled parcels. Beaver migration from less controlled to controlled parcels imposes an external cost (negative diffusion externality) on the owners of controlled parcels because they must incur the future cost of trapping immigrating beavers. Unless all land owners agree to control the beaver population simultaneously, the diffusion externality can decrease the incentive of individual landowners to control nuisance beavers, thereby driving a wedge between social and private needs for such control. This study attempts to develop a bioeconomic model that incorporates dispersive population dynamic of beavers into the design of a cost-minimizing trapping strategy. Attention is focused on the situation where all landowners in a given habitat share a common interest in controlling beaver damages, and thus collectively agree to place the area-wide control decision in the hands of a public agency on a cost-sharing basis. The public manager is assumed to minimize the present value of combined timber damage and trapping cost over a finite period of time, subject to spatiotemporal dynamic of beaver population. These dynamic are summarized by a parabolic diffusive Volterra-Lotka partial differential equation, and the population control problem is cast in the framework of a distributed-parameter-control model. The cost-minimizing area-wide trapping model accounts for net migration at each location and time, and characterizes the beaver-control strategy that leaves sufficient beavers to strike an optimal balance between timber damage and trapping cost. The marginality condition governing this trade-off requires that avoided timber damage (measured as the imputed nuisance value, or "shadow price," of the beaver stock in the area) be balanced by trapping cost. The optimality system for this problem is solved numerically. The validity of the theoretical model is empirically examined using the bioeconomic data collected for the Wildlife Management Regions of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. Empirical simulation generates discrete value for optimal beaver densities and trapping rates across all individual operational units over time. The optimal trapping program causes the initially uneven population distribution to eventually smooth out across the habitat. The sensitivity analysis alternates trapping-cost and timber-damage parameters between high and low values. Increased trapping cost decrease the level of trapping in the initial years of the optimal program, thereby leaving more beavers in the habitat. This triggers more intensive trapping during the later years of the program, requires more beavers to be trapped over the entire time horizon, and results in a higher overall program cost. Alternatively, increased timber-damage potential calls for increased trapping in the initial years of the program. Fewer beavers are maintained in the habitat and less trapping is required in the later years. Perhaps surprisingly, this results in a smaller number of beavers trapped over the entire time horizon.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mahadev G Bhat and Ray G Huffaker and Suzanne M Lenhart\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{518-530\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Controlling Forest Damage by Dispersive Beaver Populations: Centralized optimalmanagement\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://www.jstor.orgURL:http://www.jstor.org/stable/1941920\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1993\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Enriquez2021,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem grizzly bears are a high-profile multi-use species currently protected under the endangeredspecies Act. As their population has grown over time, counts of grizzly bear-human conflicts and grizzly bear mortalities have increased. A bioeconomic model is constructed in which a representative wildlife agency maximizes social net benefits from grizzly bears by deciding whether to enact direct population control. A linear optimalcontrol specification is used to reflect the realities of negotiated and rigid active management programs. Stock-dependent benefits and damages adjust along the recovery path, which tracks the natural capital value of a live grizzly bear in the wild (i.e., the in situ marginal net benefits) as the population size changes. Benchmark results indicate that the grizzly bear population has exceeded the size at which protections ought to have been removed. The natural capital value may actually be negative for an interval of time, during which it is optimal for society to continue conserving the species by developing a buffer. The results of the analysis are sensitive to key ecological and economic parameters, especially on the benefits side.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Aaron J. Enriquez and David C. Finnoff\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jeem.2021.102441\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{10960449\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic analysis, endangeredspecies, Multi-use species, Natural capital value, optimalcontrol, Recovery path\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press Inc.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{management mortality of multi-use megafauna\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{107\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2021\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2020,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{During the last few decades, the grey wolf (canislupus) has re-colonised Scandinavia. The current population counts some 430 individuals. With the wolf re-colonisation, several conflicts have arisen. One important conflict is due to wolf predation on moose (Alces alces). This conflict is studied under the assumption of landowner profit maximisation as well as routinised harvest behaviour. The analysis emphasises how compensation for the predation loss affects landowner management and harvest profitability. The solutions to the landowner problems are also compared to the overall (social planner) management situation, where traffic cost due to moose-vehicle and railway collisions are included.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Jan Tore Solstad\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/erae/jbaa007\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{14643618\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{European Review of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{bioeconomic modeling, conflicts, external cost, wildlife\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1776-1802\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford University Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Wildlife conflicts: wolves vs. moose\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{47\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2020\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Chen2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Economic interdependency of wildlife or fish stocks is usually attributed to ecological interdependency, such as predator-prey and competitive relationships, or to density-dependent migration of species between different areas. This paper provides another channel for economic inter-dependency of wildlife where density-independent migration and market price interaction affect the management strategy among different landowners. Management is studied under three market conditions for selling hunting licenses: price taking behavior, monopoly market, and duopoly market. harvest of the Scandinavian moose is used as an example. The paper provides several results on how economic interdepen-dency works through the migration pattern. When a duopoly market is introduced, hunting license price interaction among the landowners plays an additional role in determining the optimal harvest strategy.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Wenting Chen and Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Wildlife management, grazing damage, market structure, migration,moose\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On the Management of Interconnected Wildlife Populations\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents modeling approaches for wildlife and species conservation with a special emphasis on large mammals in a developing country setting. In such countries there are frequently conflicts over landuse and species conservation, and institutions for management conflicts are often weak or even lacking. In addition, most of the world species and biodiversity are found in developing countries. Two main issues are discussed. First, we study a situation where the wildlife is valuable, but is considered a pest by the local people living close to the wildlife. Second, we consider model with a discrepancy between management geography and biological geography, and where the species flows between a conservation area with no harvest and a neighboring area with harvest and possible habitat degradation.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2006.02.025\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Animal species, Conservation bioeconomics, Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{223-231\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Economic modeling approaches for wildlife and species conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{62\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hof1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper explores spatial optimization approaches to management invading exotic forest pests. The relevant land planning area is divided into cells, and pest population growth and dispersal are modeled with linear, continuous-variable formulations. Management actions are limited to those that apply directly to pest extermination, as opposed to host-oriented management actions. A stylized case example is used to demonstrate the potential application of the model formulation and to show that simple spatial strategy such as  barrier zone  approaches to slowing an organism's invasion may not always be optimal.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{John Hof\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1939-7445.1998.TB00308.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1939-7445\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{197-216\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimizing Spatial and Dynamic Population-Based Control strategy for Invasing Forest Pests\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1998.tb00308.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1998.tb00308.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1998.tb00308.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Mehta2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The increasing economic and environmental losses caused by non-native invasivespecies amplify the value of identifying and implementing optimalmanagement options to prevent, detect, and control invasivespecies. Previous literature has focused largely on preventing introductions of invasivespecies and post-detection control activities; few have addressed the role of detection. By increasing resource to detect invasivespecies, managers may increase their chances of finding a species at a smaller population level, lessening the extent of damages and making subsequent control potentially less expensive and more effective. However, detecting new invasivespecies is difficult and uncertain; many factors reduce the likelihood of successful detection, such as low population densities which are prevalent in invasivespecies management. This paper presents a model that captures the stochastic and dynamic aspects of this trade-off by incorporating a detection stage in which the agency managers choose search effort prior to the post-detection control stage. The analysis of the model illustrates that the optimal detection strategy depends primarily on the 'detectability', or ease of detection, and the biological relationships of each distinct species.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Shefali V. Mehta and Robert G. Haight and Frances R. Homans and Stephen Polasky and Robert C. Venette\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2006.10.024\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Detection, invasivespecies, Non-native, Risk management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{237-245\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal detection and control strategy for invasivespecies management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{61\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eiswerth2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Accidental introductions of nonindigenous invasivespecies impair ecosystems, increase the risk of native species extinctions, and cause substantial economic damages on a worldwide basis. Despite the magnitude of the problem, very little economic analysis has been focused on this topic to date. This manuscript develops an optimalcontrol model of the management of a nonindigenous species stock following its introduction and establishment. We find that the influence of changes in ecological and human factors (such as the invader's intrinsic growth rate, carrying capacity, and the effectiveness of invasivespecies management technologies) on the optimal level of management are analytically (mathematically) ambiguous in sign and depend on the value of other parameters and variables. To estimate actual numerical solutions to the model and conduct sensitivity analyses, we construct a case study illustration based on invasive plant species on arid lands. The illustration shows that the optimal level of management effort is sensitive to biological and ecological factors (the stock's intrinsic rate of growth, the carrying capacity afforded the invasivespecies, and the form of the invader's growth function) that are species-and site-specific as well as uncertain given currently available scientific information. This highlights the need for better collaboration and information transfer between economists and scientists interested in this topic. Given that resource for addressing nonindigenous species threats typically are quite constrained, and complete eradication in a particular area is often technically infeasible, the model provides useful insight on optimal levels of ongoing management and how they may vary according to bioeconomic factors.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mark E Eiswerth and Wayne S Johnson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{bioeconomic modeling, biological invasions, invasivespecies, nonindigenous species, optimalcontrol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{319-342\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{management Nonindigenous invasivespecies: Insights from Dynamic Analysis\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{23\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Olson2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Lars J Olson and Santanu Roy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Review of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On Prevention and Control of an Uncertain Biological Invasion\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{27\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\
   abstract = \{
\f5 \cf3 This paper examines how optimal prevention and control policydepend on the economic and biological characteristics of a randomly introduced biological invasion where the objective is to minimize the expected social cost from prevention, control, and invasion damages. The results characterize how optimal prevention and control policyvary with the initial invasion size, the invasion growth rate, and the probability distribution of introductions. The paper also examines the conditions under which the optimal policy relies solely on either prevention or control, the conditions under which it is optimal to completely prevent new introductions, and the conditions under which eradication of established invasions is optimal \},\
      keywords = \{invasivespecies, uncertainty, prevention, control \}, 
\f1 \cf4  \cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Olson2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Lars J Olson and Santanu Roy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Economics of Controlling a Stochastic Biological Invasion\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{84\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.jstor.org/stable/1245064\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Xabadia2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This study analyzes the optimal selective logging regime of a size-distributed forest where individual tree compete for scarce resource such as space, light, and nutrients. The decision problem of the forest manager is formulated as a distributed optimalcontrol problem. The interpretation of the first-order conditions allows a generalization of the Faustmann formula. In an empirical part, this article numerically determines the optimalmanagement regime of a size-structured forest and shows that the optimal selective logging regime is associated with a normal forest under a wider variety of situations than stated in the previous literature.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Angels Xabadia and Renan U. Goetz\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jfe.2009.06.002\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{11046899\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Forest Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Density effects, Distributed optimalcontrol, Faustmann rule, Forest management, Selective logging\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{63-82\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The optimal selective logging regime and the Faustmann formula\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{16\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Tahvonen2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Optimal harvest of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) forest is studied applying an individual-tree model for unevenaged management. Optimization is carried out by gradient-based, large-scale interior point methods. Assuming volume maximization and natural regeneration, it is optimal to apply unevenaged management. Under artificial regeneration, the result is the reverse. Economically optimal solutions with a 20-year harvest interval produce an annual sawn timber output of 4.4-2.4 m 3\'c2\'b7ha -1 depending on thermal zone and interest rate. Before harvest basal area varies between 18 and 12 m 2\'c2\'b7ha -1 and the diameter of harvested tree between 15 and 33 cm. In contrast with the classic inverted J-structure, optimal steadystate size structure resembles a serrate form. Profitability of even- and unevenaged management is compared assuming that the initial stand state represents an optimal unevenaged steady state. A switch to even-aged management is optimal given the most favorable growth conditions and interest rate below 1%-2%. In other cases, it is economically optimal to continue unevenaged management although volume output remains lower than under even-aged management.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Olli Tahvonen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1139/X11-130\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00455067\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Canadian Journal of Forest Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{2389-2402\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal structure and development of unevenaged Norway spruce forest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{41\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Blackwood2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The removal of invasivespecies is the first step toward restoring an ecosystem following invasion. We develop spatially-explicit, dynamic optimalcontrol strategy for a large class of invasion problems using linear-quadratic control. This approach allows us to produce new insights that help guide policy that could not have emerged from existing model. We assume adults are sedentary, and heterogeneous patches are connected via dispersal of offspring. We develop a generalized approach to optimally manage species across time and space and apply the framework to several examples, primarily based on spartniaalterniflora. General conclusions are drawn and we show that strong connectivity makes invasive control much more costly, demonstrating that reducing connectivity can be a costeffective part of invasivespecies control.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Julie Blackwood and Alan Hastings and Christopher Costello\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2009.08.029\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Connectivity, invasivespecies, Linear-quadratic control, Spatially explicit\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{519-527\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{costeffective management of invasivespecies using linear-quadratic control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{69\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{EpanchinNeil2012,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This study examines the spatial nature of optimal bioinvasion control. We develop a spatially explicit two-dimensional model of species spread that allows for differential control across space and time, and we solve for optimal spatial-dynamic control strategy. The qualitative nature of optimal strategy depends in interesting ways on aspects of landscape and invasion geometry. For example, reducing the extent of exposed invasion edge, through spread, removal, or strategically employing landscape features, can be optimal because it reduces longterm containment cost. Optimal invasion control is spatially and temporally "forward-looking" in the sense that strategy should be targeted to slow or prevent the spread of an invasion in the direction of greatest potential longterm damages. These spatially explicit characterizations of optimal policycontribute insights and intuition to the largely nonspatial literature on controlling invasions and to understanding control of spatial-dynamic processes in general. .\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Rebecca S. Epanchin-Niell and James E. Wilen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jeem.2011.10.003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00950696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Cellular automaton, Containment, Eradication, integerprogramming, invasivespecies, Management, Reaction-diffusion, Spatial control, Spatial spread, Spatial-dynamic processes\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{260-270\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal spatial control of biological invasions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{63\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2012\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kovacs2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Bio-invasions occur in management mosaics where local control affects spread and damage across political boundaries. We address two obstacles to local implementation of optimal regional control of a bio-invasion that damages public and private resource across jurisdictions: lack of local funds to protect the public resource and lack of access to protect the private resource. To evaluate these obstacles, we develop a spatial-dynamic model of the optimalcontrol of emerald ash borer (EAB) in the Twin Cities metropolitan area of Minnesota, USA. We focus on management valuable host tree with preventative insecticide treatment or pre-emptive removal to slow EAB spread. The model includes spatial variation in the ownership and benefits of host tree, the cost of management, and the budgets of municipal jurisdictions. We develop and evaluate centralized strategy for 17 jurisdictions surrounding the infestation. The central planner determines the quantities of tree in public ownership to treat and remove over time, to maximize benefits of surviving tree net cost of management across public and private ownerships, subject to constraints on municipal budgets, management activities, and access to private tree. The results suggest that centralizing the budget across jurisdictions rather than increasing any one municipal budget does more to increase total net benefits. strategy with insecticide treatment are superior to ones with pre-emptive removal because they reduce the quantity of susceptible tree at lower cost and protect the benefits of healthy tree. Increasing the accessibility of private tree to public management substantially slows EAB spread and improves total net benefit.   2013 Elsevier B.V.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kent F. Kovacs and Robert G. Haight and Rodrigo J. Mercader and Deborah G. McCullough\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.RESENEECO.2013.04.008\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Emerald ash borer, invasivespecies, Management, Non-linear programming, Spatial control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{270-289\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic analysis of an emerald ash borer invasion of an urban forest with multiple jurisdictions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{36\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/259996222_A_Bioeconomic_Analysis_of_an_Emerald_Ash_Borer_Invasion_of_an_Urban_Forest_with_Multiple_Jurisdictions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bulte1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We analyze the implications of metapopulation dynamic for optimal harvest of stochastically fluctuating local subpopulations of a species. The effect of migrating individuals on harvest is twofold: a migration effect captures the possibility for 'steering' net migration flows toward the more valuable local population, while a risk term captures the possibility that stochastic fluctuations in different local subpopulations may not be independent. The sign of both effects is analytically ambiguous, implying that harvest intensity can both decrease and increase compared to the conventional, single-population benchmark.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erwin H Bulte and G Cornelis Van Kooten\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Metapopulations, Migration, Optimal harvest, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{293-299\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Metapopulation dynamic and stochastic bioeconomic modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{30\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{www.elsevier.com/locate/ecolecon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Wam2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We present a dynamic optimization model for harvest timber and moose when the moose inflicts cost by browsing young tree. To illustrate its behaviour, the model was run numerically for Norwegian market conditions. optimalmanagement in our model kept moose at an approximately 70% lower density than if managed without concern for timber production. Further, the harvest of moose was slightly reduced around the time of timbering to take advantage of increased forage production in coming years. Thereby a fluctuating pattern in moose harvest was generated over time. The amplitude of these fluctuations depended on the productivity of the site, while the period of the fluctuations depended on the fixed cost of harvest timber. On a particular land, the optimal harvest strategy for timber was determined by (i) the relationship between timber prices and fixed cost of harvest, (ii) the relationship between prices of timber and moose, and (iii) the length of the planning period in relation to initial standing biomass of tree. Within a wide range of the present market regime, combined production of both timber and moose was the most profitable strategy. Still, for all our planning scenarios more than 90% of the income came from timber. To give this and similar model accurate applied value, more field data are needed to adequately quantify the interactions between moose and forest vegetation.  2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Hilde Karine Wam and Ole Hofstad and Eric Naevdal and Prem Sankhayan\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.FORECO.2004.10.062\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03781127\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Forest Ecology and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Alces alces, bioeconomic model, Forest, Harvest, Moose, Picea abies, Pine\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{207-219\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic model for optimal harvest of timber and moose\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{206\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/248427878_A_bioeconomic_model_for_optimal_harvest_of_timber_and_moose\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Johannesen2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The establishment and expansion of protected areas in Africa have been motivated by the aspiration of increased wildlife abundance. However, during the past decades, this practice has been subject to a massive debate. While some claim that protected areas have failed in preserving African wildlife, others claim that existing protected areas are successful. This paper adds to this debate by presenting a bioeconomic analysis of protected area expansion. The model considers a hunter-agrarian community located on the border of a protected area. An expansion of the protected area means less land for agricultural cultivation and hunting. Depending on the economic conditions of these activities, the model demonstrates that protected area expansion may reduce the degree of wildlife conservation. In addition, it may reduce the welfare of the local people.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anne Borge Johannesen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2006.05.017\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture, Hunting, Local welfare, Protected areas, Wildlife conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{126-135\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Protected areas, wildlife conservation, and local welfare\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{62\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{BednarFriedl2012,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{To enable visitors to enjoy nature while protecting endangeredspecies is the key challenge for national parks around the world. In our optimal dynamic control model, a park management maximizes tourism revenues and conservation benefits net of control cost by choosing optimal dynamic levels of conservation and visitor management. The optimization is constrained by an extended food chain model representing species-habitat-visitor interactions. We illustrate for a game bird in an Alpine national park that ecotourism can indeed lead to ecosystem degradation when the park management is more concerned about increasing tourism revenues than about achieving the conservation target and if the endangeredspecies is unknown to most visitors. If, however, the park management is well aware of the potentially negative consequences of ecotourism and hence cares for species conservation, limited ecotourism can provide funding for species conservation which ensures population levels above the uncontrolled steady state.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Birgit Bednar-Friedl and Doris A. Behrens and Michael Getzner\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10640-011-9515-5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09246460\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic model, Ecotourism, Financing and management national parks, Optimal dynamic control, Species conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1-22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Kluwer Academic Publishers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Dynamic Control of Visitors and endangeredspecies in a National Park\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{52\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2012\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Johannesen2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This study develops a model for wildlife migrating seasonally between a conservation area and a neighbouring area. When being outside the conservation area, harvest takes place by a group of small-scale farmers. The local people have two motives for harvest; to get rid of "problem" animals as roaming wildlife destroys crops and agricultural products, and hunting for meat and trophies. Depending on the specification of the propertyrights, the harvest is legal or illegal. It is demonstrated that it is far from clear which of the two propertyrights regimes that gives the highest wildlife abundance. Hence, contrary to what is argued for in the literature, handing the propertyrights over to the local people means not automatically more wildlife and a more "sustainable" resource utilization. The reason lies in the nuisance motive for harvest. The exploitation under the two different propertyrights regimes are illustrated by numerical calculations with data that fits reasonable well with the exploitation of the wildebeest population in the Serengeti-Mara ecosystem.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anne Borge Johannesen and Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental & Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Serengeti, bioeconomics, propertyrights, wildlife\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{469-488\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{propertyrights and Natural Resource Conservation. A bioeconomic Model with Numerical Illustrations from the Serengeti-Mara Ecosystem\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{28\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Rondeau1561,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An optimalcontrol model of wildlife management is developed to analyze the transitory dynamic set forth by the reintroduction of animals that provide benefits but can also come into conflict with humans. The shadow price of these resource can be positive or negative, potentially creating a nonconvexity. The conditions under which reintroduction is not desirable are determined, and those characterizing the initiation of costly population control are investigated. An application to deer management illustrates the relevance of the nonconvexity and the magnitude of losses stemming from delays in implementing optimalmanagement. The impact of distributional concerns on efficiency is discussed.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Daniel Rondeau\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1006rjeem.2000.1157\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{conflict, endangeredspecies, nonconvexity, optimalcontrol, pest control, reintroduction, shadow price\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Along the Way Back from the Brink\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{42\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1561\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft1988,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In this paper we analyze the exploitation of wildlife in a Third World context. In the model there are two agents: an agency management a habitat area offixed size and a group of peasants. The agency management the habitat area has the legal right to exploit the wildlife, while the local people hunt illegally. Introducing the concept of relative harvest dominance, we demonstrate that the stock utilization depends crucially on the prevailing economic and ecological conditions. It is also shown that the existing property-rights regime appears in different forms depending on these conditions.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Jan Tore Solstad\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Political Economy of Wildlife Exploitation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{74\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1988\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bulte2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We extend the traditional G-S model of open access by defining a non-concave harvest function. We demonstrate the possible existence of multiple equilibria and perverse comparative statics and show that small changes in the underlying economic parameters may trigger large jumps in species' abundance. Finally, we briefly discuss implications for management.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erwin H Bulte\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Black rhino, Holling type 3 predation, Hysteresis, Jumps, Non-concavity, Poachers, propertyrights\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Open access harvest of wildlife: the poaching pit and conservation of endangeredspecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{www.elsevier.com/locate/agecon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Adams2020,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Although present United States (U.S.) policy restricts very nearly all Cuban commercial exports to the U.S., there is potential for the restrictions to be relaxed or perhaps even lifted at some point  in the future. In light of the potential increased trade with Cuba, the potential arrival of invasivespecies such as bark beetles and ambrosia beetles \'94particularly from Asia via Cuban imports \'94could represent a serious threat for the southern U.S. forestlands. We develop a bioeconomic model that estimates potential economic damages to southern pine forest caused by the hypothetical introduction of an unknown Asian bark or ambrosia beetle via future trade with Cuba for the study period 2018 2050. We examine individual policyand combinations of them that could be considered in response to this hypothetical situation. Using the pre-revolution Cuban level of imports, the economic damages in absence of  any policy or management action  could reach $2.44 million ($76,250/year). These damages could be reduced to between $469,000 ($14,656/year) and $1.02 million ($31,875/year) if a risk mitigation policy (forest thinning) were implemented. When prevention polices are considered as the baseline, the risk mitigation policy (combined with prevention) is again observed to be the dominant policy. The differences between the various combinations with respect to the prevention policy are relatively minor ranging between $856,000 ($26,750/year) and $1.30 million ($40,635/year). These findings should be interpreted with caution given the limited amount of empirical data and policy assumptions, but they nonetheless can inform policy choices related to trade, pests, and Cuba.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Damian C. Adams and Andres Susaeta and Jose R. Soto and Frederick Rossi and Paloma Carton de Grammont and William A. Messina and Frank H. Koch and Demian Gomez and Jiri Hulcr\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10818-019-09289-X/TABLES/7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15736989\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Bioeconomics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Asian bark/ambrosia beetle, Bioeconomic modeling, Cuba,Damages, F13, forest, Q23, Q57, Trade\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{33-58\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic model for estimating potential economic damages from a hypothetical Asian beetle introduced via future trade with Cuba\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10818-019-09289-x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2020\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kinyua2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In large parts of Africa, wildlife herbivores spill over onto private lands, competing with domestic livestock for forage resource. To encourage private landowners to take into account the externality bene\'c2\'aets of wildlife, game cropping is increasingly considered as an important component of conservation policies. In this paper, we employ a bioeconomic model of a private game ranch to examine \'c2\'aeve potential government policyconcerning wildlife conservation, ranging from (strict) preservation to uncontrolled exploitation. `Intermediate' policyappear to contribute most to wildlife conservation, with cost to landowners of such policybeing modest. The model outcomes support recent wildlife policy shifts in Kenya.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Patrick I D Kinyua and G Cornelis Van Kooten and Erwin H Bulte\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{European Review of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{biodiversity, bioeconomic modeling, game cropping in Kenya, wildlife conservation policy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{African wildlife policy: protecting wildlife herbivores on private game ranches\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{27\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bradshaw2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{How can one manage wildlife under a suite of competing values? In isolation, the ecological economics of native wildlife harvest, threatened species conservation and control of exotic species are all well established sub-disciplines of wildlife management. However, the wild banteng (Bos javani-cus) population of northern Australia represents an interesting combination of these aspirations. A native bovid of Southeast Asia now 'endangered' in its native range, banteng were introduced into northern Australia in 1849. Today, a population of 8,000 10,000 resides on one small, isolated peninsula in western Arnhem Land, Northern Territory and is harvested by both recreational (trophy) and aboriginal subsistence hunters. Indigenous, industry and conservationist stakeholders differ in their requirements for population management. Here we analyze the ecological and economic cost/benefits of a series of potential harvest management options for Australia's banteng population, with the aim being either to: (1) maximize sustainable yield (MSY); (2) maximize harvest of trophy males; (3) maximize indigenous off-take; (4) suppress density or completely eradicate the population; (5) minimize risk of extinction whilst limiting range expansion; (6) scenarios incorporating two or more of options 1 5. The modeling framework employed stochastic, density-regulated matrix population model with life-history parameters derived from (i) allometric relationships (for estimating r max , generation length, fecundity and densities for a banteng-sized mammal) and (ii) measured\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Corey J A Bradshaw and Barry W Brook\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Ecological-Economic model of Sustainable Harvest for an Endangered but Exotic Megaherbivore in Northern Australia\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{20\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The paper analyses the conflict between wildlife conservation and the cost and benefits obtained from it in an East African context. In the model there are two agents: a park agency management a national park of fixed size and a group of agro-pastoralists living in the vicinity of the park. The park authority produces tourism services and sells hunting licences, whereas the agro-pastoralists produce livestock products. Wildlife and livestock interact with each other and wildlife is a nuisance for livestock production. The conflict is analysed under different market solutions as the agro-pastoralists, to various degrees, are given profit shares from the park activities. It is demonstrated that a market solution where they are given propertyrights in the form of a fixed share of the harvest profit, will increase the nuisance on their production and therefore generally give no clear welfare gain for the local people. On the other hand, if they also receive a profit share from the tourist activity above that of the hunting benefit, the nuisance from the roaming wildlife will decrease as this scheme gives incentives for the park manager to increase the offtake and thereby decrease the wildlife stock in the long term. There will therefore be more livestock and a clear welfare gain for the agro-pastoralists compared to the situation where they have no propertyrights. Under certain conditions, the stock sizes will also be closer to what is optimal from an overall point of view.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic modeling, Conflicts, Conservation, Wildlife\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{67-80\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Resource utilization, propertyrights and welfare-Wildlife and the local people\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Nlom2021,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Using bioeconomic modeling, this paper analyses conflicts between legal and illegal activities in the Campo-Ma'an National Park, Cameroon. We consider two different agents, a local community living near the Park - who hunt illegally to fulfil their welfare -, and a park manager who has received from the Cameroonian government the mandate to manage the wildlife found in the park. The park manager is assumed to practice an imperfect anti-poaching policy due to the persistence of poaching activities in the study area. Both agents are assumed to proceed in strategic and asymmetric interdependency where the park manager determines the anti-poaching effort and then the local people have to adjust their behaviour within a full park scheme. In a bid to reduce illegal hunting, the social planner - the Cameroonian government - then tries to implement another scheme in which the local people are allowed to hunt in the surrounding area of the park, through the establishment of community hunting zones. This park-plus-hunting scheme is an example of Integrated and Conservation Development Project. The empirical analysis is based on data drawn from different sources. Results show that the anti-poaching efforts, the wildlife stock and the harvest rate are lesser when some hunting rights are allowed to local people as compared to what they are under full park regime. However, by recognizing some hunting rights to the local people, the share of income lost by the park is almost recovered and all poachers leave the underground to exercise in legality as hunters.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Jean Hugues Nlom\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JNC.2021.126003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{16171381\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal for Nature Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Anti-poaching effort, Community hunting zones, Full park scheme, ICDPs, Illegal hunting, Local welfare, Park-plus-hunting scheme, User rights, Wildlife conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier GmbH\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic analysis of conflicts between illegal hunting and wildlife management in Cameroon: The case of Campo-Ma'an National Park\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{61\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/350972129_A_bioeconomic_Analysis_of_Conflicts_between_Illegal_Hunting_and_Wildlife_Management_in_Cameroon_The_Case_of_Campo-Ma'an_National_Park\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2021\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bulte2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We develop a model of open access wildlife exploitation, habitat conservation and agricultural expansion, which is consistent with rural communities at the fringe of natural habitats in areas such as sub-Saharan Africa. Farmers have the option of either hunting for wildlife or growing crops. The opportunity cost of each activity is the return to the other (economic interdependence), and habitat conversion affects the returns to both activities (ecological interdependence). We show how different patterns of conservation and agricultural expansion may emerge, and that greater conservation may be consistent with higher incomes. We also show that wildlife stocks under open access may be greater than wildlife stocks under a common property (or social planner's) regime.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erwin H Bulte and Richard D Horan\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Competing landuse, Conservation, Multiple equilibria, Trade measures\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{109-127\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Habitat conservation, wildlife extraction and agricultural expansion\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{45\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{vanKooten1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We use a dynamic stochastic simulation model of forage, herbivores, predators and domestic livestock in the Machakos District of Kenya to address policyrelated to the multiple use of rangeland resource. The particular policy examined is that of switching from a traditional system, where commercial ranchers do not harvest wildlife herbivores, to one where ranchers are provided economic incentives to adopt multiple-use management of the range resource. Simulations using an adaptive controller indicate that the effects of the polity change on wildlife populations depend on the conditions of the ecosystem and, importantly, on ranchers' attitudes to risk. When forage is abundant, and game and livestock do not compete for food, the policy change leads to reduced wildlife populations, especially of the relatively more valuable species. This indicates that game cropping may not he more compatible with nature conservation than standard pastoralist practices. However, in periods of drought when competition for forage occurs, the policy change may dampen the decline in game populations, as risk-averse ranchers may decide to sell more cattle and harvest wildlife instead. Game cropping reduces wildlife populations, but increases their stability.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{G. Cornelis Van Kooten and Erwin H. Bulte and Patrick Kinyua\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0308-521X(96)00099-6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0308-521X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural Systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{439-462\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Game cropping and wildlife conservation in Kenya: A dynamic simulation model with adaptive control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{54\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Keith1985,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Managers of public wildlife resource generally are concerned with enhancing the quality of recreation by increasing wildlife through habitat manipulation. However, current recreation valuation studies have focused upon variables that are inappropriate for use in these management decisions. The economic criterion for these decisions should be the value of a change in the stock of the wildlife population compared to its cost. An estimate of such a value was made for the Oak Creek deer herd in Utah, using a household production function approach in an optimalcontrol framework. The value of an additional deer in the herd was estimated to be approximately $40.00.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{John E Keith and Kenneth S. Lyon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.22004/AG.ECON.32315\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Western Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Western Agricultural Economics Association\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Valuing Wildlife Management : A Utah Deer Herd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:ags:wjagec:32315\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1985\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Barrett1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper develops a model coupling wildlife population dynamic to endogenous human consumption and poaching behavior in an environment of imperfect labor and product markets and static agricultural production technology subject to environmental shocks. Using a model of the Serengeti wildebeest herd, we simulate how long an integrated conservation and development project based on managed wildlife harvest might effectively delay biodiversity loss by preempting poaching. Alternative interventions that more directly tackle the problem of time-varying returns to peasant agricultural labor appear to offer more durable solutions to the challenge of wildlife conservation in the midst of endemic rural poverty.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christopher B Barrett and Peter Arcese\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{449-465\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Wildlife Harvest in Integrated Conservation and Development Projects: Linking Harvest to Household Demand, Agricultural Production, and Environmental Shocks in the Serengeti\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{74\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{\cf4 Buyuktahtakin2011\cf3 ,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A dynamic model of controlling invasive weeds is first developed which is a large scale, nonlinear 0-1 integerprogramming problem. This model is then applied for the case of control of the invasive grass, Pennisetum ciliare (buffelgrass), in the Arizona desert. The large size of the problem makes the application of direct optimization methods impossible, instead the most frequently suggested strategy were analyzed and their consequences compared. The model is more advanced and complex than those examined in earlier studies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{I. Esra Buyuktahtakin and Zhuo Feng and George Frisvold and Ferenc Szidarovszky and Aaryn Olsson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.CAMWA.2011.08.037\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0898-1221\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Computers & Mathematics with Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biological invasion, integerprogramming, invasivespecies, Non-native species, optimalcontrol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{3326-3333\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Pergamon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A dynamic model of controlling invasivespecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{62\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Burnett2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Once established, invasivespecies can rapidly and irreversibly alter ecosystem and degrade the value of ecosystemservice. optimalcontrol of an unwanted species solves for a trajectory of removals that minimizes the present value of removal cost and residual damages from the remaining population. The shrubby tree, miconiacalvescens, is used to illustrate dynamic policy options for a forest invader. Potential damages to Hawaii's forest ecosystem are related to decreased aquifer recharge, biodiversity, and other ecosystem values. We find that population reduction is the optimalmanagement policy for the islands of Oahu, Maui, and Hawaii. On the island of Kauai, where tree density is lower and search cost higher, optimal policy calls for deferring removal expenditures until the steady state population is reached.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kimberly Burnett and Brooks Kaiser and James Roumasset\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jfe.2007.02.007\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{16181530\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Forest Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Hawaii, invasivespecies, miconiacalvescens, Watershed quality\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{151-167\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier GmbH\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Economic lessons from control efforts for an invasivespecies: miconiacalvescens in Hawaii\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{13\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Odom2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Environmental weeds are plants that invade natural ecosystem and present a serious threat to conservation of nature. Environmental weeds have been implicated in the extinction of several indigenous plant species, and they also threaten ecosystem stability and functional complexity. Historically, emphasis in weed control in Australian national parks has been placed on chemicals, manual pulling of small plants, excluding tourists and feral animal control measures. Recently, biological control has been introduced to control weed infestations. These methods typically have been applied as funds have become available, with little opportunity to consider their longterm effectiveness. As the threat from environmental weeds is becoming more fully recognised, an integrated, strategic, ecological and economic approach to weed management is needed. A deterministic dynamic-programming model is developed for this purpose in this paper. A case study for scotch broom is presented, to assess the ways in which this approach can address the policy issues that face the community in the management of an environmental weed in a national park. The model takes account of the weed population dynamic, the effectiveness and cost of control measures, and the value of the park outputs (biodiversity, recreation and grazing). The dynamic-programming model includes weed density and seed bank as state variables and a budget constraint for the control variables. The model is used to derive optimalcontrol rules for any given state of the weed population. An optimal decision rule provides a package of control measures that can be used to attack the problem each year, depending on the current weed density and seed bank. Optimal trajectories are developed for a planning horizon of 45 years, and the effect of the budget constraint is analysed. The marginal value of an extra dollar for weed control, in terms of discounted future benefits, is estimated. It is shown that a combination of controls that targets both weed density and the seed bank is important. It is also shown (given the assumed parameters) that biological control is worth undertaking, as it appears as part of most of the optimal strategy identified. The paper concludes with policy recommendations for management weeds in natural ecosystems.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Doreen I S Odom and Oscar J Cacho and J A Sinden and Garry R Griffith\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{dynamic-programming, Environmental weeds, Policies, Scotch broom, Weed management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{policyfor the management of weeds in natural ecosystems: the case of scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius, L.) in an Australian national park\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{44\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{www.elsevier.com/locate/ecolecon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Olson1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper analyzes conservation and extinction of renewable resource when the production function is nonconcave and the return function depends on consumption and the resource stock. The paper focuses on the efficiency of global conservation , a safe standard of conservation, and extinction. Which outcome obtains depends on the marginal rate of substitution between investment and the stock in addition to the discount factor and the marginal productivity of the resource. Conservation may be efficient even if the discounted intrinsic growth rate of the resource is less than 1.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Lars J Olson and Santanu Roy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Economic Theory\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1333157\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On Conservation of Renewable resource with Stock-Dependent Return and Nonconcave Production\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Huffaker1989,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper explores stocking patterns in an optimally-managed plant/herbivore system where periodic economic rents result from stocking animals on plant-bearing range/pasture to gain a desired weight for eventual sale. Optimization of the present value of economic rents in a predator-prey framework results in a two differential equation model of animals (predators) and forage (prey). The characteristics of this model are analyzed with phase diagrams under various assumptions about both biological and economic parameters. The results show when it pays to stock close to the Golden-Rule\uc0\u157  forage level (where the marginal productivity of the forage stock equals the discount rate), and when the solution is economically buffered away from the Golden-Rule stock.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Ray G. Huffaker and James E. Wilen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1939-7445.1989.TB00121.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1939-7445\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{bioeconomic, grazing, herbivore\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{553-575\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{dynamic of Optimal Stocking in Plant/Herbivore Systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1989.tb00121.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1989.tb00121.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1989.tb00121.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1989\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Strobele1995,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The economics of harvest a renewable natural resource is well-developed in a framework where environmental conditions of the species looked at are kept constant. For the case of two interacting species as a prey-predator relationship the economics of harvest one of the two species is analyzed. Questions of existence, uniqueness, and stability are looked at. Applying optimalcontrol theory, a modified golden rule of harvest is derived.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Wolfgang J. Str\'f6bele and Holger Wacker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/BF01231484\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1617-7134\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{65-81\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The economics of harvest predator-prey systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{61\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF01231484\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1995\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Semmler1994,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The paper demonstrates - partly analytically and partly numerically - that traditional results in resource economics obtained from the study of only one resource do not carry over to ecologically interacting resource. As in the traditional approach, we also employ dynamic optimization. The limiting behavior of the trajectories is first studied analytically by letting the discount rate approach infinity. A numerical study is then undertaken by means of a dynamic-programming algorithm in order to explore the fate of the resource for various finite discount rates. The relation of our results to results in optimal growth theory is also discussed.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Willi Semmler and Malte Sieveking\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{23-49\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On the Optimal Exploitation of Interacting resource\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{59\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1994\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hussain2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Optimal harvest using individual licenses are determined given that a licensee's probabilities of procuring a license and harvest successfully are less than one. Probabilities are dependent on the resource stock and the number of licenses, and licensees benefit from the harvest experience itself. Recreational fishing and hunting are applications. The optimum stock may be greater or less than the maximum sustained yield stock, and investing in more stock decreases licenses but increases licensees' success. The optima depend on whether the license agency views applicants as dedicated or social, where the latter are relatively more interested in procuring a license than in a successful harvest.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Abul Maala Tanvir Hussain and John Tschirhart\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{optimal harvest, recreational licenses, uncertain harvest success\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Harvest Licensing When Harvest Success Is Uncertain on JSTOR\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{92\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.jstor.org/stable/40647971\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Salau2015,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The United States endangeredspecies Act (ESA) was enacted to protect and restore declining fish, wildlife, and plant populations. The ESA mandates endangeredspecies protection irrespective of cost. This translates to the restriction of activities that harm endangered populations. We discuss criticisms of the ESA in the context of public land management and examine under what circumstance banning non-conservation activity on multiple use federal lands can be socially optimal. We develop a bioeconomic model to frame the species management problem under the ESA and identify scenarios where ESA-imposed regulations emerge as optimal strategy. Results suggest that banning harmful activities is a preferred strategy when valued endangeredspecies are in decline or exposed to poor habitat quality. However, it is not optimal to sustain such a strategy in perpetuity. An optimal plan involves a switch to landuse practices characteristic of habitat conservation plans.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kehinde R. Salau and Eli P. Fenichel\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s00285-014-0840-5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{14321416\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Mathematical Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Allee effect, Dynamic optimization, endangeredspecies act, Mathematical bioeconomics, Public land, Resource management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{817-846\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{25312414\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer Verlag\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Bioeconomic analysis supports the endangeredspecies act\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{71\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Horan2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We use a two-state linear control model to examine the socially optimalmanagement of disease in a valuable wildlife population when diseased animals cannot be harvested selectively. The two control variables are nonselective harvest and supplemental feeding of wildlife, where feeding increases both in situ productivity and disease prevalence. We derive a double singular solution which depends on the initial state and does not require bang-bang controls. The case of bovine tuberculosis among Michigan white-tailed deer is analyzed. In the base model, the disease is optimally maintained at low levels, with intermittent investments (via feeding) in deer productivity.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Richard D. Horan and Christopher A. Wolf\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1467-8276.2005.00746.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00029092\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bovine tuberculosis, Double singular solution, Linear control, Nonselective harvest, White-tailed deer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{537-551\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The economics of management infectious wildlife disease\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{87\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/227359891_The_Economics_of_management_Infectious_Wildlife_Disease\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Fenichel2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Invasive insects, arthropods, and other invertebrates are of concern due to the role some play in introducing and transmitting pathogens via a pathogen-vector relationship. Indeed, vector-borne diseases represent a significant portion of emerging diseases. We compare and contrast three strategic approaches to management a vector-borne pathogen: Conventional strategy based on disease ecology without regard to economic tradeoffs and costeffective strategy based on a bioeconomic framework. Conventional strategy entail management the vector population below a threshold value based on R0-the basic reproductive ratio of the pathogen, which measures a pathogen's ability to invade uninfected systems. This does not account for post-infection dynamic, nor does it balance ecological and economic tradeoffs. Thresholds take on a more profound role under a bioeconomic paradigm: Rather than unilaterally determining vector control choices, thresholds inform control choices and are influenced by them. Simulation results show costeffective strategy can lower overall program cost and may be less sensitive to parameter estimation.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Eli P. Fenichel and Richard D. Horan and Graham J. Hickling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10530-010-9734-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{13873547\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Invasions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomics, Decision theory, Disease ecology, Host-density thresholds, Vector-borne pathogen system,\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{2877-2893\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Bioeconomic management of invasive vector-borne diseases\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \ul @working_paper\ulnone \{\ul Fischer2009\ulnone ,\
   abstract = \{This paper formulates a \ul bioeconomic\ulnone  model to analyze community incentives for wildlife management under benefit-sharing programs like the Communal Areas Management \ul Programme\ulnone  for Indigenous resource (CAMPFIRE) in Zimbabwe. Two agents influence the wildlife stock: a parks agency determines hunting quotas, and a local community chooses to either aid or discourage outside poachers. Wildlife generates revenues from hunting licenses and tourism; it also intrudes on local agriculture. We consider two benefit-sharing regimes: shares of wildlife tourism rents and shares of hunting licenses. Resource sharing does not necessarily improve community welfare or incentives for wildlife conservation. Results depend on the exact design of the benefit shares, the size of the benefits compared with agricultural losses, and the way in which the parks agency sets hunting licenses.\},\
   author = \{Carolyn Fischer and Edwin \ul Muchapondwa\ulnone  and Thomas Sterner\},\
   \ul issn\ulnone  = \{1403-2465\},\
   institution = \{\ul RFF\ulnone  Working Paper\},\
   keywords = \{CAMPFIRE, benefit sharing, \ul bioeconomic\ulnone , community, poaching, wildlife\},\
   title = \{\ul Bioeconomic\ulnone  Model of Community Incentives for Wildlife Management Before and After CAMPFIRE\},\
   url = \{\ul www\ulnone .\ul handels\ulnone .\ul gu\ulnone .\ul se\ulnone \},\
   year = \{2009\},\
\}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Jayasuriya2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Invasions by nonindigenous plant species pose serious economic threats to Australian agricultural industries. When a new invader is identified a rapid response is critical, particularly if the invasivespecies has the ability to spread rapidly. An early decision is required whether to attempt to eradicate or contain the infestation, or do nothing and leave it to landholders to manage. These decisions should be based on economic considerations that account for long term benefits and cost. This paper describes a bioeconomic simulation framework with a mathematical model representing weed spread linked to a dynamic-programming model to provide a means of determining the economically optimal weed management strategy over time, from the government\'92s perspective. The modeling framework is used to evaluate hypothetical case study invasive weed control scenarios in the Australian cropping systems. The benefit-cost ratios of invasion control are shown to be generally very high and clearly, there are significant benefits to be achieved by controlling highly invasive weeds when initial infestations are at a low level. Even if the invasion cannot be eradicated due to its high invasiveness or budget constraints, it still pays to maintain invasions at low levels.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Rohan T. Jayasuriya and Randall E. Jones and Remy van de Ven\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10818-010-9097-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1573-6989\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Bioeconomics 2010 13:1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{45-72\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic model for determining the optimal response strategy for a new weed incursion\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{13\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10818-010-9097-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hritonenko2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Maximization of the net profit from harvest in a one-species age-structured population is analyzed. One of the control functions is the age of harvested individuals. The constructed mathematical model is similar to vintage capital model used in economics for optimal capital replacement. The optimization technique developed by authors for the capital replacement is disseminated to the formulated problem. A qualitative analysis of the problem is provided and the interpretation of results is given. Such economic topics as a zero-investment period, optimal balanced growth, and turnpike properties are discussed.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Natali Hritonenko and Yuri Yatsenko\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10818-006-9000-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{13876996\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Bioeconomics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{harvest, Population age-structure, Profit maximization, Vintage capital model, Zero-investment period\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{167-179\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimization of harvest return from age-structured population\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Elofsson2015,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{invasivespecies often cause economic damage due to their impact on economically valuable resident species. We study optimal regulation in terms of simultaneous control and adaptation when the purpose is to manage an invasivespecies which competes for scarce resource with a resident species. The optimal policy includes both subsidies for control of an invasivespecies with zero commercial value, and harvest taxes on the resident species which are adjusted in the presence of an invasion. A numerical age-structured optimization model is used to analyze the role of species life history, i.e. the degree of evolutionary specialization in survival or reproduction, for the choice of strategy and the associated economic instruments. Results show that, irrespective of life history, both policyare implemented in efficient solutions, but subsidies for controlling the invader are used to a larger extent when it is possible to target specific age classes of the invader. If a resident species is harvested non-selectively, the optimal subsidy for control of the invader is lower, and if the invader is specialized in survival the control subsidy mirrors the resident species harvest cycle.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Katarina Elofsson and Ing Marie Gren\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10818-014-9183-y\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15736989\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Bioeconomics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Adaptation, Control subsidy, harvest tax, invasivespecies, Life history\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{113-136\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Kluwer Academic Publishers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Regulating invasivespecies with different life history\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Fisher1981,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Weeds and fungal diseases cause significant losses to grain crops in Australia. In many cases cultural methods of control are effective. However, it is often difficult for farm decision-makers to select the optimum crop rotation, from an economic point of view, given the technical constraints they face. A decision to plant a particular crop will have implications for both current and future profitability because the current decision will alter the constraints faced by the decision-maker in subsequent periods. dynamic-programming is used to solve the rotation problem faced by grain growers in north-wester New South Wales in areas where the weed, wild oats (Avena fatua or Avena ludoviciana) and the diseas, crown rot (Fusarium framinearum Group 1) have a significant effect on wheat yields. The solutions to the dynamic-programming problem suggest taht in many circumstances a stable rotational pattern is appropriate. In the present case the model is solved for a set of conditions which is relevant to only a small part of the wheat-belt of New South Wales. However, the method can be applied to aid decision-making in individual cases where the user may wish to change the underlying agronomic assumptions of the model.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{B.S. Fisher and R.R. Lee\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Review of Marketing and Agricultual Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A dynamic-programming Approach to the Economic Control of Weed and Disease Infestations in Wheat\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{49\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1981\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Gorddard1995,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The presence of weeds have developped resistance to chemical herbicides is a problem of rapidly growing importance in Australian agriculture. We present an optimalcontrol model of herbicide residtance development in ryegrass, the weed for which resistance is most commonly reported. The model is used to select the optimal combination of chemical and non-chemical control measures taking account of the trade off between short term profits and the long term level of herbicide resistance. Results indicate that given the threat of resistance there are benefits from integrating a combination of chemical and non-chemical control measures. The optimal strategy is found to include a declining herbicide dosage as resistance develops, with compensatory increases in the level of non-chemical control.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Russell J. Gorddard and David J. Pannell and Greg Hertzler\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    note = \{<br/>\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{An optimalcontrol Model for Integrated Weed Management Under Herbicide Resistance\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{39\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1995\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Jones1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Summary. The primary objective of this study was to estimate the economic benefits associated with an integrated weed management approach for wild oats (Avena fatua and A. ludoviciana) in northern New South Wales involving chemical and non-chemical controls. The paper presents a framework for assessing the population dynamic of wild oats and the economics of a range of control options over 15 years. Wild oats is a weed primarily of winter crops which, as a consequence of its persistence and its impact upon yields, leads to significant economic losses in the grain growing regions of Australia. In this study, a dynamic-programming model is developed to examine the impact of a range of management strategy for the control of wild oats in wheat. The strategy evaluated include conventional herbicide control to reduce weed densities, the use of selective herbicides to reduce seed set of the weed, and summer crop and winter fallow rotational options which provide a break in the cereal cycle and allow accelerated control of wild oat populations. The hypothesis for the study, that strategy which involve measures that directly reduce seed production and minimise wild oats seed bank populations will yield the greatest economic benefit, is acceptable based on the findings of the study. The work also shows that a dynamic-programming model provides a means of determining the optimal combination of strategy over time for various initial value of the seed bank. The methodology is considered to have general application as a framework for evaluating the economics of weed control problems in annual cropping systems.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{R. Jones and R. Medd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1071/EA97036\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1446-5574\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Australia, Australian, adoption of technology, agricultural, animal sciences, biodiversity, breeding, catchment management, drought tolerance, educational, environmental management systems, extension, farming system ,grazing management, integrated pest management, international, irrigation, meat quality, milk quality, soil indicators, sustainability, techniques water quality, wool quality\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{683-691\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{CSIRO PUBLISHING\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Economic analysis of integrated management of wild oats involving fallow, herbicide and crop rotational options\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{37\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.publish.csiro.au/ea/ea97036\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Pandey1991,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper develops a stochastic multi-period decision model to analyse a continuous\cf3 \
\cf4 wheat cropping system infested by wild oats (Avena fatua L), in southern Australia. The multi-period solutions is obtained by employing a dynamic-programming model in conjunction with a bioeconomic simulation model. An empirically estimated dose response function is used to derive the optimal herbicide rate. Uncertainties due to environmental effects on the performance of herbicide and crop yields are modelled and optimal decision rules derived. The results indicate that substantial economic gains can be realised if herbicide dose decisions are taken by considering future profit effects of current decisions, as opposed to the more common approach of only considering the current-period effect.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Sushil Pandey and R. W. Medd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0169-5150\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{115-128\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Blackwell\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A stochastic dynamic-programming framework for weed control decision making: an application to Avena fatua L\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:eee:agecon:v:6:y:1991:i:2:p:115-128\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1991\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Taylor1984,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Near-optimal multiperiod decision rules for controlling wild oats in spring wheat in north central Montana are presented in this paper. Decision alternatives are fallow, use of a preemergent or postemergent herbicide, and crop without use of a herbicide. The near-optimal decision rules, which were obtained from a partially decomposed stochastic dynamic-programming model, depend on density of wild oats seed in the plow layer, whether the land was previously cropped or fallow, soil moisture level, price of spring wheat, and post-planting density of wild oats.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{C Robert Taylor and Oscar R Burt\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{dynamic-programming, weed control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Near-optimalmanagement strategy for Controlling Wild Oats in Spring Wheat\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://ajae.oxfordjournals.org/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1984\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Pandey1990,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A major grass weed of winter cereals, wild oats (Avena spp.), is primarily controlled by killing plants, either prior to sowing a crop or within the crop. The economic feasibility of seed kill for controlling wild oats in wheat is evaluated using a dynamic-programming model linked to a bioeconomic simulation model. In the context of Australian wheat crops, the tactic of killing wild oat seeds was found to be economically viable under some conditions when combined with existing weed management practices. From this, it is suggested that it would be prudent to divert some research funds into developing this tactic. The two critical parameters which determine the viability of the seed kill option are the effectiveness of the control agent in killing seeds and the cost of the treatment. Assuming 60% seed kill as the upper limit, seed kill is economically feasible only if it cost less than (Australian) $12/ha per year. When seed kill is economically feasible, the profits increase due to initial yield advantages caused by rapid depletion in seed reserves as well as by overall savings in herbicide cost. The analysis indicated that the savings in herbicide usage could be as high as 65%. Indirect benefits from such drastic reduction in herbicide usage, although not evaluated in this study, could also be realised.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Sushil Pandey and R. W. Medd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0308-521X(90)90094-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0308-521X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural Systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{65-76\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Integration of seed and plant kill tactics for control of wild oats: An economic evaluation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{34\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1990\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Crocker1992,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper incorporates an ecosystem model into a model of a simple economy. The decisionmaking agents in the ecosystem are individual organisms aggregated to the species level. A species may provide utility directly to humans, or it may provide utility indirectly because it is used either as a raw material in goods fabrication or as sustenance for other species. We describe a comparative static equilibrium of the ecosystem where species' demands for other species are equal to the supplies of those other species, and energy is conserved. The ecosystem is then embedded in the economy so that the effects of human intervention can be traced through both the ecosystem and the economy. Human intervention creates ecosystem externalities such that ecosystem equilibria are shifted and the new equilibria affect the utility or the production processes of other humans. This framework allows us to describe in principle which ecosystemservice can be efficiently usurped by humans, which waste flows can be efficiently allowed into ecosystems, and which ecosystem organisms and physical attributes can be efficiently maintained.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Thomas D. Crocker and John Tschirhart\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/BF00330283\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1573-1502\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{551-567\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Ecosystems, externalities, and economies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00330283\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1992\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Cooper1993,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents a dynamic model that determines the optimal number of deer hunting permit sales, subject to the objective of maximizing the discounted economic benefits stream from both the consumptive and nonconsumptive uses of deer. This bioeconomic model integrates economic benefits estimated using the dichotomous choice contingent valuation method with biological growth constraints on deer. Using a hunting zone in California as a case study, the model found that the optimal levels of buck hunting permits sold should change on a rotational basis over time and that the current practice of not selling doe hunting permits for that zone is non optimal.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Joseph C. Cooper\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/BF00364060\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09246460\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental & Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Contingent valuation, bioeconomic, deer harvest, dynamic model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{563-579\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Kluwer Academic Publishers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic model for estimating the optimal level of deer and tag sales\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/5146767_A_bioeconomic_model_for_estimating_the_optimal_level_of_deer_and_tag_sales\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1993\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The paper treats the economy of controlling an African pest rodent, the multimammate rat, causing major damage in maize production. An ecological population model is presented and used as a basis for the economic analyses carried out at the village level using data from Tanzania. This model incorporates both density-dependent and density-independent (stochastic) factors. Rodents are controlled by applying poison, and the cost are made up of the cost of poison plus the damage to maize production. We analyse how the present-value cost of maize production are affected by various rodent control strategy, by varying the duration and timing of rodenticide application. Our numerical results suggest that it is economically beneficial to control the rodent population. In general, the most costeffective duration of controlling the rodent population is 3-4 months every year, and especially at the end of the dry season-beginning of rainy season. The paper demonstrates that changing from today's practice of symptomatic treatment when heavy rodent damage is noticed to a practice where the calendar is emphasized, may substantially improve the economic conditions for the maize producing farmers. This main conclusion is highly robust and not much affected by changing prices of maize production.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Herwig Leirs and Harry P. Andreassen and Loth S.A. Mulungu and Chr Stenseth Nils\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/S1355770X06003044\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1355770X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environment and Development Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{453-475\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The bioeconomics of controlling an African rodent pest species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Shoemaker1983,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A stochastic dynamic-programming model is developed to analyze the integrated control of alfalfa weevil in central New York. The management alternatives considered include biological control by the parasitoid Bathyplectes curcu/ionis, cultural control by early harvest, and chemical control by insecticides. The optimal policydepend upon pest and parasite densities, weather, length of planning horizon, and a number of parameters describing population dynamic. Sensitivity analysis on the parameters indicate that the policyare most sensitive to weather and weevil densities and least sensitive to parasite attack rates. The model results indicate that early harvest is usually the most effective control procedure for alfalfa weevil management in central New York.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christine A Shoemaker and David W Onstad\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental Entomology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{286-295\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimization Analysis of the Integration of Biological, Cultural, and Chemical Control of Alfalfa Weevil (Coleoptera: Curculionidae)\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://ee.oxfordjournals.org/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1983\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eiswerth2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Mark E Eiswerth and G Cornelis Van Kooten and Steve Schoenig and Joseph Ditomaso and Wayne Johnson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1317-1322\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Uncertainty, Economics and the Spread of an Invasive Plant Species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{84\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Horan2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Richard D Horan and Charles Perrings and Frank Lupi and Erwin H Bulte\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1303-1310\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biological Pollution Prevention strategy under Ignorance: The Case of invasivespecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{84\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://www.jstor.orgURL:http://www.jstor.org/stable/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Olson2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper analyzes the optimal intertemporal control of a biological invasion. The invasion growth function is non-convex and control cost depend on the invasion size, resulting in a non-classical dynamic optimization problem. We characterize the long run dynamic behavior of an optimally controlled invasion and the corresponding implications for public policy. Both control and the next-period invasion size may be non-monotone functions of the current invasion size; the related optimal time paths may not be monotone or convergent. We provide conditions under which eradication, maintenance control, and no control are optimal policies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Lars J. Olson and Santanu Roy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S00199-007-0281-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1432-0479\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Economic Theory 2007 36:3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{453-469\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Controlling a biological invasion: a non-classical dynamic economic model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{36\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00199-007-0281-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\
\
\cf4 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Huffaker1992,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper examines dynamically optimal trapping strategy for a resident beaver population causing damage to privately-held timber land. An extreme elimination strategy does not account for the dispersive behavior of neighboring beaver populations in filling the resulting environmental vacuum. This negative externality is accounted for by embedding an ecological model of small-mammal disper-sive dynamic into an optimization framework minimizing the sum of discounted timber damage and trapping cost. The optimal balance that timber producers must strike between the benefits of leaving sufficient resident numbers to deter foreign invasions and the cost of timber damage caused by these "protectors" is characterized.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{R.G. Huffaker and M.G. Bhat and S.M. Lenhart\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1939-7445.1992.TB00267.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1939-7445\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{71-97\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Trapping strategy for Diffusing Nuisance Beaver Populations\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1992.tb00267.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1992.tb00267.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1939-7445.1992.tb00267.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1992\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Fonner2017,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Effective management of wild horse populations has proven difficult for land managers. This paper develops and evaluates dynamic optimization model of wild horse management for three nonlethal population control methods: removals, fertility control, and a hybrid method combining removals and fertility control. Two state variables are included in the model to account for horses on the range and horses in off-range holding facilities. The optimization problems are solved and dynamic simulations are generated for each method. The results indicate that a strategic approach to nonlethal wild horse population control has the potential to significantly improve management efficiency.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Robert Fonner and Alok K. Bohara\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.3368/LE.93.3.390\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15438325\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{390-412\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{University of Wisconsin Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{optimalcontrol of wild horse populations with nonlethal methods\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{93\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/318666201_Optimal_Control_of_Wild_Horse_Populations_with_Nonlethal_Methods\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2017\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Rondeau2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Conflicts are emerging between humans and wildlife populations adaptable to the high density of humans found in urban and suburban areas. In response to these threats, animal control programs are typically designed with the objective of establishing and maintaining a stable population. This article challenges this view by studying the management of urban deer in Irondequoit, NY. Pulsing controls can be more efficient than steadystate regimes under a wide range of conditions in both deterministic and stochastic environments, but potential gains can be dissipated by management constraints. The effect of citizen opposition to lethal control methods is also investigated.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Daniel Rondeau and Jon M Conrad\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{deer, dynamic-programming, pulsing, stochastic simulations, wildlife control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{management Urban Deer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{85\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://ajae.oxfordjournals.org/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Higgins1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The release of biological control agents for the control of environmental weeds is often resisted by parties which utilize these plants. This conflict is difficult to resolve because of the social, economic and ecological complexities involved. We construct an ecological-economic model to simulate the complex dynamic of the release of a biological control agent with the aim of developing a tool which can be used to facilitate conflict resolution in such situations. The model is applied to an environmental weed which has invaded the lowland fynbos ecosystem of South Africa, Acacia saligna; its biological control agent, Uromycladium tepperianum; and a commercially desirable indigenous wildflower plant, Protea repens. The model is parameterized using data from field studies and a number of management scenarios are investigated. The analysis indicates that the benefits of biological control have the potential to outweigh the cost, if the opportunities provided by the biological control agent are exploited. It is concluded that ecological-economic model have much potential for facilitating conflict resolution.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Steven I Higgins and Esteban J Azorin and Richard M Cowling and Mike J Morris\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Acacia saligna, Equity, Fuelwood, Fynbos, harvest, Protea repens, Uromycladium tepperianum, Wildflowers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{141-154\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A dynamic ecological-economic model as a tool for conflict resolution in an invasive-alien-plant, biological control and native-plant scenario\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Higgins1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Mountain fynbos ecosystem in South Africa are threatened by alien plant invasions and by a lack of funding for effective management of these invasions. This paper develops an ecological-economic argument for the effective management of plant invasions in mountain fynbos ecosystems. We do this by building a dynamic ecological economic model which value the ecosystemservice that fynbos ecosystem provide under different management regimes. We propose that the services that mountain fynbos ecosystem provide fall into six components: water production, wildflower harvest, hiker visitation, ecotourist visitation, endemic species and genetic storage. A scenario analysis based on a hypothetical 4 km2 mountain fynbos ecosystem in the western part of the fynbos biome estimated that the ecosystem's value varies from R19 million (under low valuation and poor management scenario) to R300 million (under high valuation and good management scenario) [R4.50 = US$1]. Water production and genetic storage were the most valuable ecosystemservice. The model showed that the cost of clearing alien plants (under the proactive management scenario) was a tiny (0.6-5%) proportion of the value of mountain fynbos ecosystems. This result motivates an injection of funds for clearing alien plants from mountain fynbos ecosystems.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{S. I. Higgins and J. K. Turpie and R. Costanza and R. M. Cowling and D. C. Le Maitre and C. Marais and G. F. Midgley\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0921-8009(97)00575-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Alien plant invasion, ecosystemservice, Fynbos, Mountain catchments, Valuation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{155-169\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{An ecological economic simulation model of mountain fynbos ecosystems: dynamic, valuation and management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Huffaker1995,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We formulate a grazing model linking privately optimal stocking rates to their longterm impacts on the succession of plant species on rangeland. The fast (annual) dynamic of a grazing-decision component are put in phase with the slow (decade-long) dynamic of a plant-succession component via the "slow-manifold" theory of dynamical systems. The model provides the context for analytically approximating "successional thresholds," partitioning rangeland conditions into those gravitating toward socially desirable or socially undesirable plant compositions over time. These thresholds are instrumental in determining whether grazing management alone can restore rangeland to a socially desired plant composition.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Ray Huffaker and Kevin Cooper\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/1243813\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0002-9092\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{901-913\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Wiley\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Plant Succession as a Natural Range Restoration Factor in Private Livestock Enterprises\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{77\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1995\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Courtois2019,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Efficient biodiversity management strategy aim to allocate conservation efforts so as to maximize diversity in ecological systems. Toward this end, defining a diversity criterion is an important but challenging task, as several different indices can be used as biodiversity measures. This paper elicits and compares two criteria for biodiversity conservation based on indices stemming from different disciplines: Weitzman's index in economics and Rao's index in ecology. These indices use different approaches to combine information about measures of (1) the probability distributions of the species that are present in an ecosystem (i.e. survival probabilities) and (2) the degree of dissimilarity between these species. As an important step toward in situ conservation criteria, we add to these elements information about (3) the ecological interactions that take place between species. Considering a simple three-species ecosystem, we show that criterion choice has palpable policy implications, as it can sometimes lead to divergent management recommendations. We disentangle the roles played by elements (1), (2) and (3) in the ranking of outcomes, which allows us to highlight several specificities of the two criteria. An important result is that, other things being equal, Weitzman's in situ ranking tends to favor robust species that are least concerned with extinction, while Rao's in situ ranking generally gives priority to more vulnerable species that are closer to extinction.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Pierre Courtois and Charles Figui\'c3\'a8res and Chloe Mulier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2018.12.027\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity indices, Conservation management strategy, Ecological interactions, Public policy, Species prioritization criteria\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{133-147\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier B.V.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A Tale of Two Diversities\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{159\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2019\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Sharov1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Slowing the expansion of the range of the gypsymoth, Lymantria dispar (L.), in North America will reduce the area affected by gypsymoth populations in the future and hence may be economically justified. The rate of range expansion can be reduced by eradication of isolated gypsymoth infestations in a barrier zone that is located just beyond the expanding population front and is slowly shifted in the direction of population spread. We developed a model to optimize the allocation of resource for monitoring and treatment of isolated colonies in a barrier zone. Model parameters were estimated using data collected in the central Appalachian Mountains. The model predicted that the cost of slowing population spread is minimized when the density of pheromone traps and eradication activity within the barrier zone decrease with increasing distance from the population front. Sensitivity analysis indicated that the output was most sensitive to the change of the maximum distance from the population front at which colonies can become established. The present value of predicted cost of all monitoring and treatment in the barrier zone were <1/4 the present value of expected benefits from slowing the spread of the gypsymoth over 25 yr.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Alexei A. Sharov and Andrew M. Liebhold and E. Anderson Roberts\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/JEE/91.1.165\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0022-0493\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Economic Entomology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Barrier zone, Biological invasion, Lymantria dispar, Model, Optimization\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{165-174\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford Academic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimizing the Use of Barrier zone to Slow the Spread of gypsymoth (Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae) in North America\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{91\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://academic.oup.com/jee/article/91/1/165/2216826\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Lenhart1992,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A bioeconomic model for optimalcontrol of wildlife damage by migratory small mammal populations is developed under the framework of a nonlinear distributed parameter control problem. The model first simulates the spatio-temporal dynamic of dispersal population by parabolic diffusive Volterra-Lotka partial differential equation and then optimizes a criterion function of present value combined cost of wildlife damage and harvest. The existence of a unique optimal solution for a finite time problem is proved. An iterative procedure for numerical solution of the Optimality System with parabolic equations of opposite orientations is developed. The theoretical model is applied to a real life problem using biological and economic data for beaver populations under certain simplistic assumptions.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Suzanne M. Lenhart and Mahadev G. Bhat\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Mathematical model in Methods in Applied Sciences \},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Application of Distributed Parameter Control Model in Wildlife Damage Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1992\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Lafuite2018,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The destruction of natural habitats for agricultural production results in local biodiversity loss. Biodiversity loss in turn affects agricultural production indirectly through a range of biodiversity-dependent ecosystemservice. Land conversion thus results in a negative externality, mediated by changes in biodiversity. When the consequences of this externality are delayed in time, lack of internalization results in overshoot-and-collapse dynamic, which are undesirable from a sustainability perspective. Here, we emphasize the importance of forward-looking policyfor the longterm sustainability of human-nature interactions. We show that the internalization of this externality through a land tax can result in several win-win effects in the long run. First, more biodiversity is preserved at equilibrium, which increases the carrying capacity and total well-being of the human population. Second, a taxation path that maximizes the discounted sum of human utilities prevents or greatly alleviates overshoot-and-collapse crises, thus increasing the sustainability of the system. In particular, this result holds in the case of imperfect information regarding the precise temporal dynamic of biodiversity loss, suggesting that the design of efficient landuse management policyis possible despite incomplete ecological data. This study highlights the need to internalize biodiversity-dependent externalities through economic incentives, especially under uncertainty regarding longterm ecological dynamic.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{A. S. Lafuite and G. Denise and M. Loreau\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2018.08.003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, ecosystemservice, Extinction debt, Land tax, Social-ecological system, Sustainability\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{272-281\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier B.V.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Sustainable landuse Management Under Biodiversity Lag Effects\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{154\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2018\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Lafuite2017,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The sustainability of coupled social-ecological system (SESs) hinges on their longterm ecological dynamic. Land conversion generates extinction and functioning debts, i.e. a time-delayed loss of species and associated ecosystemservice. Sustainability theory, however, has not so far considered the longterm consequences of these ecological debts on SESs. We investigate this question using a dynamical model that couples human demography, technological change and biodiversity. Human population growth drives land conversion, which in turn reduces biodiversity-dependent ecosystemservice to agricultural production (ecological feedback). Technological change brings about a demographic transition leading to a population equilibrium. When the ecological feedback is delayed in time, some SESs experience population overshoots followed by large reductions in biodiversity, human population size and well-being, which we call environmental crises. Using a sustainability criterion that captures the vulnerability of an SES to such crises, we show that some of the characteristics common to modern SESs (e.g. high production efficiency and labor intensity, concave-down ecological relationships) are detrimental to their longterm sustainability. Maintaining sustainability thus requires strong counteracting forces, such as the demographic transition and landuse management. To this end, we provide integrative sustainability thresholds for land conversion, biodiversity loss and human population size - each threshold being related to the others through the economic, technological, demographic and ecological parameters of the SES. Numerical simulations show that remaining within these sustainable boundaries prevents environmental crises from occurring. By capturing the longterm ecological and socio-economic drivers of SESs, our theoretical approach proposes a new way to define integrative conservation objectives that ensure the longterm sustainability of our planet.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{A. S. Lafuite and M. Loreau\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2017.02.022\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03043800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Ecological economics, ecosystemservice, Extinction debt, Integrative sustainability threshold, Social-ecological system\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{96-108\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier B.V.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Time-delayed biodiversity feedbacks and the sustainability of social-ecological systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{351\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2017\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Ay2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Reconciling food, fiber and energy production with biodiversity conservation is among the greatest challenges of the century, especially in the face of climate change. Model-based scenarios linking climate, landuse and biodiversity can be exceptionally useful tools for decision support in this context. We present a modeling framework that links climate projections, private landuse decisions including farming, forest and urban uses and the abundances of common birds as an indicator of biodiversity. Our major innovation is to simultaneously integrate the direct impacts of climate change and landuse on biodiversity as well as indirect impacts mediated by climate change effects on landuse, all at very fine spatial resolution. In addition, our framework can be used to evaluate incentive-based conservation policyin terms of landuse and biodiversity over several decades. The results for our case study in France indicate that the projected effects of climate change dominate the effects of landuse on bird abundances. As a conservation policy, implementing a spatially uniform payment for pastures has a positive effect in relatively few locations and only on the least vulnerable bird species.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Jean Sauveur Ay and Raja Chakir and Luc Doyen and Fr\'c3\'a9d\'c3\'a9ric Jiguet and Paul Leadley\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10584-014-1202-4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15731480\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Climatic Change\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Common birds, Incentive policy, Integrated model, landuse\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{13-30\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Kluwer Academic Publishers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Integrated model, scenarios and dynamic of climate, landuse and common birds\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{126\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bevers1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We present a spatial optimization model that accounts for wildlife edge effects through multiple habitat needs in a multistand forest management problem. Wildlife population dynamic are based on discrete reaction-diffusion processes combined with multiple limiting-factor constraint sets, one for nest site capacity and another for effective forage capacity. The model is shown to reasonably represent both negative and positive effects of forest edges on wildlife by varying the amount of forage production from harvested and unharvested forest areas in a static formulation. A dynamic model is also demonstrated, and scale effects are examined using mixed-integer programming.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Michael Bevers and John Hof\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Forest Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatially Optimizing Wildlife Habitat Edge Effects in Forest Management Linear and Mixed-Integer Programs\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{45\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://academic.oup.com/forestcience/article/45/2/249/4627582\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Fenichel2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Wildlife disease management strategy traditionally focus on lowering aggregate host density below a host-density threshold, reducing infectious contacts (when transmission is density-dependent) to reduce prevalence. The focus on aggregate host density is because controls such as harvest are typically nonselective with respect to disease status. Such nontargeted strategy increase control cost and may not optimally lead to eradication. We consider targeting an observable trait correlated with infection-gender. Two endogenous host-density thresholds emerge, in contrast to the exogenous thresholds arising in the ecological literature on multiple-host-pathogen problems. The ability to manage these thresholds reduces control cost and makes eradication optimal.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Eli P. Fenichel and Richard D. Horan\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/j.1467-8276.2007.01025.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00029092\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomics, Bovine tuberculosis, Epidemiology, Host-density threshold, Targeting, White-tailed deer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{904-920\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Gender-based harvest in wildlife disease management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{89\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bicknell1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This article presents a dynamic bioeconomic model of livestock disease control that is unique in its integration of disease dynamic, inter-species interaction, control-induced migration, and individual optimising behaviour. Examination of the first-order conditions highlights why profit-maximising producers cannot be expected to eradicate disease. Results from an empirical application of the model confirm that the current mix of policyto control bovine tuberculosis in New Zealand is achieving lower levels of prevalence than would prevail in the absence of a national strategy. These policydo, however, appear to remove some of the individual incentive to control disease.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kathryn Bicknell and James E. Wilen and Richard E. Howitt\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.22004/AG.ECON.117214\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{International Relations/ Trade Livestock Production Industries\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1-21\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Australian Agricultural and Resource Economics Society\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Public policy and private incentives for livestock disease control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{43\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://ideas.repec.org/a/ags/aareaj/117214.html\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Fenichel2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We investigate wildlife disease management, in a bioeconomic framework, when the wildlife host is valuable and disease transmission is density-dependent. Disease prevalence is reduced in density-dependent model whenever the population is harvested below a host-density threshold a threshold population density below which disease prevalence declines and above which a disease becomes epidemic. In conventional model, the threshold is an exogenous function of disease parameters. We consider this case and find a steady state with positive disease prevalence to be optimal. Next, we consider a case in which disease dynamic are affected by both population controls and changes in human-environmental interactions. The host-density threshold is endogenous in this case. That is, the manager does not simply manage the population relative to the threshold, but rather manages both the population and the threshold. The optimal threshold depends on the economic and ecological trade-offs arising from the jointly-determined system. Accounting for this endogene-ity can lead to reduced disease prevalence rates and higher population levels. Additionally, we show that ecological parameters that may be unimportant in conventional model that do not account for the endogeneity of the host-density threshold are potentially important when host density threshold is recognized as endogenous.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Eli P. Fenichel and Richard D. Horan\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1939-7445.2007.TB00219.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{19397445\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{511-547\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Jointly-determined ecological thresholds and economic trade-offs in wildlife disease management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{20\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/227609576_Jointly-Determined_Ecological_Thresholds_and_Economic_Trade-Offs_in_Wildlife_Disease_Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Gersovitz2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Vector-borne diseases especially rife in poor countries pose sectoral tax/subsidy issues. Preventions and therapies mitigate these diseases in a numerical optimization model combining dynamic epidemiology and economics. The medical distinction between prevention and therapy does not distinguish economic properties of preventions and therapies. Some interventions increase and others decrease moving to the steady state, depending: on the utility function, the targeting of interventions and the disease process. Interventions display negative own-price but indeterminate cross-price effects. Juxtaposing the social planner's with decentralized choices quantifies externalities and shows how subsidies implement the first-best. One prevention and the therapy are equally subsidized.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mark Gersovitz and Jeffrey S. Hammer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jpubeco.2004.02.007\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00472727\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4 SPEC. ISS.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Public Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Epidemiology, Health, Infections, Prevention, Therapies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{647-674\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Tax/subsidy policytoward vector-borne infectious diseases\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{89\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Asano2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We consider an SIR metapopulation model for the spread of rabies in raccoons. This system of ordinary differential equations considers subpopulations connected by movement. Vaccine for raccoons is distributed through food baits. We apply optimalcontrol theory to find the best timing for distribution of vaccine in each of the linked subpopulations across the landscape. This strategy is chosen to limit the disease optimally by making the number of infections as small as possible while accounting for the cost of vaccination.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erika Asano and Louis J. Gross and Suzanne Lenhart and Leslie A. Real\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.3934/MBE.2008.5.219\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1547-1063\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Mathematical biosciences and engineering : MBE\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Algorithms, Animals,Rabies / mortality, Rabies / prevention & control, Rabies / veterinary, Rabies Vaccines / administration & dosage, Rabies virus, Raccoons, Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{219-238\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{18613731\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Math Biosci Eng\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{optimalcontrol of vaccine distribution in a rabies metapopulation model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18613731/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Gaff2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Plant pathogens are quite destructive to cash crops throughout the world, resulting in potentially devastating financial losses. This work expands recently developed optimalcontrol theory for an integrodifferencemodel to amathematical system which includes an integrodifference component. This system model a highly simplified plant pathogen system for which the optimal harvest scheme is derived. An adjoint system is introduced to characterize the optimal harvest pattern. This analysis shows that, while it may not be possible to prevent losses upon discovery of the pathogen in an area, it is theoretically possible to significantly cut those losses by culling an area around the initial infection.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Holly Gaff and Hem Rajjoshi and Suzanne Lenhart\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/S1355770X07003828\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1355770X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environment and Development Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{673-686\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest during an invasion of a sublethal plant pathogen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Lin1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Markov decision process (MDP) model were effective in analyzing forest management policies. Even the simplest standard results gave useful insights into forest ecology, such as how landscape diversity is shaped by natural catastrophes, and how forest mature through successional phases. The methods were also useful to predict the effects of different management policyon ecological and economic criteria. Optimization augmented the usefulness of the approach, suggesting that income from Wisconsin's maple-birch forest could be increased without ruining their diversity of landscape, tree size, and tree species. It showed that maximizing species diversity, defined by the distribution of tree in shade-tolerance classes, would require some harvest. Instead, maximum tree size diversity occurred in unmanaged forest, but this gave a less diverse landscape and no income. The MDP method allowed for the design of compromise policythat would maximize income while keeping diversity above specified limits. The opportunity cost of increasing tree size diversity was found to be much higher than for species diversity. Comparing the maximum timber income owners could have got with what they actually cut suggested that the amenity value of forest was four times that of timber. Advantages of the methods reside in the ability to model complex ecosystem processes with simple probability matrices, and in the rich MDP theory and algorithms. Limitations include the difficulty of defining a space set large enough for accurate discretization, but small enough for practical application.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Ching Rong Lin and Joseph Buongiorno\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1287/MNSC.44.10.1351\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00251909\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Management Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Ecosystem Management, Forestry, Optimization, Risk, Simulation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1351-1366\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{INFORMS Inst.for Operations Res.and the Management Sciences\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Tree diversity, landscape diversity, and economics of maple-birch forest: Implications of Markovian model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{44\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Buongiorno1995,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The forest of the Jura mountains are among the most productive in France. This study developed quantitative model to improve the management of these mixed forest of fir, spruce, and beech. A nonlinear matrix model of stand growth was estimated and validated with mediumterm projections and simulations of longterm stand dynamic. The ecological criteria were Shannon's index of tree diversity by species and size, the minimum number of tree in any species-size class, and basal area. The economic criteria were the present value of harvest, gross or net of the value of the growing stock, and the rate of return on the capital invested in the growing stock. Linear and goal programming were used to determine the effects, on all criteria, of managements that would maintain the stand in a steady state, and either (i) remove only the dead tree, (ii) maintain the forest close to its current state, (iii) achieve economic efficiency, subject to a desired level of diversity, (iv) maximize diversity, with or without constraints on economic returns. The results suggested that a light management could improve tree diversity, relative to natural stand growth. Maximum economic efficiency would require a substantial reduction in basal area and average size of tree, and it would lead to low tree diversity. Maximizing unconstrained tree diversity would be costly. Managements that conciliated diversity and economic efficiency all required a decrease in the basal area of stands, relative to their current state. A simple approach to convert a stand from its current condition to a desired steady state was investigated\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Joseph Buongiorno and Jean-Luc Peyron and Fran\'c3\'a7ois Houllier and Max Bruciamacchie\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/forestCIENCE/41.3.397\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0015-749X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Forest Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{397-429\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford Academic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Growth and Management of Mixed-Species, unevenaged forest in the French Jura: Implications for Economic Returns and Tree Diversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{41\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://academic.oup.com/forestcience/article/41/3/397/4627234\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1995\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Groeneveld2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents a spatially explicit bioeconomic analysis of species conservation in agricultural areas. Wild species in fragmented agricultural landscapes are best approached as metapopulations consisting of a finite number of local populations. Economic analysis of species conservation in fragmented habitat needs to deal with metapopulation theory and its theoretical implications. This paper presents a spatially explicit bioeconomic model consisting of a straightforward economic landuse model and an applied metapopulation model. This paper demonstrates that multiple equilibria and multiple local optima in metapopulations might lead to nonconvexities in the production possibilities set of agricultural profits and species conservation.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Rolf Groeneveld and Hans Peter Weikard\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JENVMAN.2005.04.023\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0301-4797\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of environmental management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agriculture/ economics, Conservation of Natural resource, Ecosystem, Environment\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{275-285\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{16137820\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{J Environ Manage\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Terrestrial metapopulation dynamic: a nonlinear bioeconomic model analysis\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{78\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16137820/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Moilanen2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Methods for designing regional reserve networks mostly concentrate on providing maximal representation of species occurring in the region. Representation-based methods, however, typically consider a static snapshot of species incidences, and the spatial dynamic of the species are ignored. It has been empirically demonstrated that reserves designed using representation do not guarantee another important goal of reserve-design: longterm persistence. The question studied here is the following: Which subset of sites do you select to maximize the longterm persistence of a species living in a metapopulation, given that each site has a cost and the amount of resource (e.g., money) available is limited? We present an optimization method, which uses a combination of evolutionary optimization (a genetic algorithm) and local search to find the optimal selection of sites. The quality of each candidate solution is evaluated using a spatially realistic metapopulation model, the incidence function model. The proposed method is applied to a metapopulation of the false heath fritillary butterfly, an endangeredspecies in Finland. With this data set, the proposed estimation method produces intuitively acceptable and consistent results within minutes of computation time. Sites favored by the algorithm are located in three patch clusters, and they tend to be inexpensive and initially occupied. Expensive and/or very isolated patches are rarely selected into the optimal site selection.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Atte Moilanen and Mar Cabeza\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Melitaea diamina, economic constraint, genetic algorithm, incidence function model, local search, longterm persistence, metapopulation, objective function, reserve network design, site selection algorithm\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{913-926\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Single-Species Dynamic Site Selection\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Conrad1993,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The concept of coevolution is reviewed and a model is developed in an attempt to make the concept operational. The location, scale, and timing of economic activities in a buffer zone to a park or preserve are related to an index of biodiversity. Coevolution would occur if a trajectory of activities would in turn result in "acceptable' trajectories for net revenue and the index of biodiversity. The concept and model is used to evaluate alternative rates of timber harvest from the monarch butterfly preserves in Mexico.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{J. M. Conrad and G. Salas\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/3146457\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00237639\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{404-415\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Economic strategy for coevolution: timber and butterflies in Mexico\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{69\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1993\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Calkin2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An integrated model, combining spatial wildlife population and timber harvest and growth model, was developed to explore tradeoffs between the likelihood of persistence of a wildlife species, the northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus), and timber production on a landscape on the west side of the Oregon Cascade Range. A simplified wildlife model was developed from the fully parameterized spatial wildlife model, using a habitat neighborhood-weighting scheme, for use in the optimization. Simulated annealing, a heuristic optimization technique, was used to solve for harvest schedules that maximized the net present value of timber harvest subject to a target value for likelihood of species persistence over a 100-year planning period. By solving this problem for a range of species persistence targets, a production possibility frontier was developed that showed tradeoffs between timber harvest value and likelihood of species persistence on this landscape. Although the results are specific to the wildlife species and the landscape analyzed, the approach is general and provides a structure for future model that will help land managers and forest planners to understand tradeoffs among competing resource uses.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{David E. Calkin and Claire A. Montgomery and Nathan H. Schumaker and Stephen Polasky and Jeffrey L. Arthur and Darek J. Nalle\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1139/X02-056\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00455067\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Canadian Journal of Forest Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1329-1342\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{ NRC Research Press Ottawa, Canada \},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Developing a production possibility set of wildlife species persistence and timber harvest value\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{32\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://cdnsciencepub.com/doi/abs/10.1139/x02-056\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Smulders2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Trade barriers may improve welfare if propertyrights with respect to renewable natural resource are lacking. Previous studies focus on the role of overharvest, but we argue that trade-induced habitat destruction should also be taken into account. Habitat is one of the key factors determining the long-run viability of many natural resource, and economic activity oftentimes goes at the expense of habitat. While open access gives rise to within-industry externalities, habitat destruction creates across-industry externalities. We identify under what circumstances trade liberalization is welfare-enhancing as well as contributing to nature conservation, and analyze the consequences of trade policy.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Sjak Smulders and Daan Van Soest and Cees Withagen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JEEM.2004.03.002\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Nature conservation, Renewable resource, Species diversity, Trade liberalization, Trade policy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{891-910\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{International trade, species diversity, and habitat conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{48\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Damania2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The tiger (Panthera tigris) is classified as endangered (IUCN,  2000). The population of wild tigers continues to decline,  despite substantial conservation investments by governments and  international agencies. This paper presents a formal economic  analysis of the two most imminent threats to the survival of  wild tigers: poaching of wild tigers and hunting their prey. A  model is developed to examine the interactions between wild tiger and farm households living in and around tiger habitats. The  analysis extends the most recent model of tiger demography to  incorporate predator-prey interactions and explores the  sensitivity of tiger populations to key economic parameters. To  our knowledge this is the first formal investigation into the  economic causes of declining tiger populations. It is hoped  that the analysis may contribute to the policy debate on how  best to protect one of the world's most endangered wild cats.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Richard Damania and Randy Stringer and K. Ullas Karanth and Brad Stith\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2139/ssrn.295494\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1556-5068\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier BV\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Economics of Protecting Tiger Populations: Linking Household Behaviour to Poaching and Prey Depletion\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{79\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://www.ssrn.com/abstract=295494\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Polasky2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We combine a simple trade model with a species-area curve to derive the effect of trade on biodiversity conservation. Trade causes specialization in production that drives specialization in ecosystem and their associated biodiversity. When trading partners contain similar species in autarky, trade has little effect on global biodiversity but lowers local biodiversity. On the other hand, with high endemism, specialization causes significant declines in both local and global biodiversity. If preferences for biodiversity conservation are sufficiently high, overall utility may decline with a move toward free trade unless corrective conservation policy is instituted.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Stephen Polasky and Christopher Costello and Carol McAusland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jeem.2003.11.003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00950696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Conservation, Endemism, Specialization, Species-area curve\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{911-925\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On trade, landuse, and biodiversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{48\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Haight1995,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Planning regulations pursuant to the National Forest Management Act of 1976 require the USDA Forest Service to produce costeffective, multiple-use forest plans that ensure the viability of native wildlife populations within the planning area. In accordance with these regulations, this paper presents a method for determining costeffective conservation plans for sensitive wildlife species. The method is a decision framework for determining what forest areas should be managed as habitat to meet a population viability constraint and what areas should be used for timber production to maximize the present value of revenue from timber yields. The viability constraint is a minimum probability of meeting a standard for the risk of population extinction. This viability constraint focuses regulatory decisions on two key parameters: the standard for extinction risk and the probability of attaining the standard. The decision model is used to estimate the economic cost of these parameters. Examples for single- and multi-patch conservation problems show that the cost of habitat preservation increases as the standard for extinction risk becomes more stringent and as the required probability of attainment increases. Results from the decision model are useful for evaluating research and monitoring activities and determining the economically efficient risk standard.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{R. G. Haight\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/1941984\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{10510761\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{cost of habitat preservation, decision model, efficiency, extinction risk, forest management, forest-dependent wildlife, habitat conservationplanning, optimal harvest, population model, population viability analysis, risk, stochastic simulation model, uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{767-775\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Ecological Society of America\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Comparing extinction risk and economic cost in wildlife conservationplanning\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1995\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Marshall2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper examines strategy for costeffective management of an endangeredspecies: the Kirtland's Warbler. Population distributions as a function of rotation length are generated using a stochastic simulation model, and these distributions are used to find the rotation age that attains a management objective. Management cost is calculated as the opportunity cost of harvest. Regression analysis is used to assess potential reductions in opportunity cost from changing fundamental parameters driving warbler population dynamic. It is found that the desirable combination of management tools may depend on the safety margin selected.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{E. Marshall and F. Homans and R. Haight\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/3147041\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00237639\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Land Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{462-473\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{University of Wisconsin Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Exploring strategy for improving the costeffective of endangeredspecies management: The Kirtland's Warbler as a case study\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{76\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/46552260_Exploring_strategy_for_Improving_the_Cost_Effectiveness_of_Endangered_Species_Management_The_Kirtland's_Warbler_as_a_Case_Study\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Baumgartner2004b,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper studies optimal investment in multi-species protection when species interact in an ecosystem and there is uncertainty about the exact nature of species interaction. The analysis is based on a model of stochastic species extinction in which survival probabilities are interdependent. Individual species protection plans can increase a species' survival probability within certain limits and contingent upon the existence or absence of other species. Protection plans are costly and the conservation budget is fixed. It is assumed that human well-being depends solely on the services provided by one particular species, but other species contribute to overall ecosystem functioning and thus influence the first species' survival probability. One result is that it may be ecologically and economically optimal to invest in conservation plans also for those species that do not directly contribute to human well-being. Another result is that taking species interaction into account may reverse standard results obtained under the assumption of independent species. For example , the rank ordering of spending priorities among different species protection plans may be completely reversed by species interaction. However, with uncertainty about the exact nature of species interaction no clear policy recommendation about optimal investment in multi-species protection plans can be made. One conclusion for environmental policy is that, given the current large uncertainties about the exact functioning of ecosystems, targeting individual species with protection plans lacks an ecological-economic rationale. Rather, whole ecosystem should be the target of environmental protection.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Stefan Baumg\'e4rtner\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{EcoHealth\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{conservation, endangeredspecies, environmental policy, multi-species ecosystems, species interaction, stochastic extinction, uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal investment in multi-species protection when species interact in an ecosystem\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://www.stefan-baumgaertner.de\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Courtois2018,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Biological invasions entail massive biodiversity losses and tremendous economic impacts that justify significant management efforts. Because the funds available to control biological invasions are limited, there is a need to identify priority species. In this paper, we first review current invasivespecies prioritization methods and explicitly highlight their strengths and pitfalls. We then construct a costbenefit optimization framework that offers the theoretical foundations of a simple method for the management of multiple invasivespecies under a limited budget. We provide an algorithm to operationalize this framework and render explicit the assumptions required to satisfy the management objective.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Pierre Courtois and Charles Figuieres and Chloe Mulier and Joakim Weill\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2017.11.037\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biological invasions, Cost/ benefit, Diversity, Optimization, Prioritization\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{607-620\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A costbenefit Approach for Prioritizing invasivespecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{146\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2018\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Courtois2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This note incorporates ecological interactions into the Noah's Ark problem. In doing so, we arrive at a general model for ranking in situ conservation projects accounting for species interrelations and provide an operational costeffective method for the selection of best preserving diversity projects under a limited budget constraint.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Pierre Courtois and Charles Figuieres and Chlo\'c3\'a9 Mulier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1371/JOURNAL.PONE.0106073\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1932-6203\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{PLOS ONE\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Conservation biology, Conservation genetics, Conservation science, Extinction risk, Linear programming, Predation, Species interactions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{e106073\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{25181514\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Public Library of Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Conservation Priorities when Species Interact: The Noah's Ark Metaphor Revisited\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0106073\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Solow1993,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In optimizing strategy aimed at the conservation of biological diversity, it is necessary to compare the consequences of competing strategy for biological diversity. This paper presents a general approach to this problem. An example concerning the conservation of crane species is given.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Andrew Solow and Stephen Polasky and James Broadus\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On the Measurement of Biological Diversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{24\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1993\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Eiswerth1992,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{During recent attempts to discuss biological diversity, economists have drawn upon the tools and techniques of mainstream resource economics to estimate the value of species. This can lead to a tendency to focus on the importance of species in isolation to one another and on the numbers of species (species richness) in natural areas. Such an approach does not incorporate the ongoing efforts of scientists to define and analyze different types of diversity among species and natural system (e.g., genetic diversity and ecosystem diversity). Rather than address the explicit valuation of individual species or of biological diversity, we show how potential guidelines for the allocation of conservation expenditures among regions might be changed by consideration of the "genetic distinctiveness" of species, in addition to the numbers of species, inhabiting those regions. We use recent estimates of inter-species genetic distances originating from DNA-DNA hybridization as an example of the kind of weighted information that could prove useful in conservationplanning, and as an illustration we examine crane ranges in Africa and Asia.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mark E Eiswerth and J Christopher Haney\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Allocating conservation expenditures: accounting for inter-species genetic distinctiveness\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1992\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Wu2001,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Dynamic and static weed control decision rules are derived analytically and compared. The dynamic rule leads to increased farm profits and greater control of weeds and weed seeds than the static rule, while total herbicide use is unchanged. The magnitude of the differences is estimated for atrazine control of foxtail and cocklebur in corn production. Incorporating weed dynamic into weed control strategy increases farm profits between 1.0 and 1.4%.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Junjie Wu\},\cf3 \
\cf4    isbn = \{01695150/01\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Herbicide use, Weed control decision rules, Weed seed dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal weed control under static and dynamic decision rules\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{25\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2001\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Karp1966,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{
\f6\fs32 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf7 \cb5 The problem of rangeland management is modeled as a stochastic control problem. The manager periodically chooses stocking rates and decides whether to use a treatment which improves the rangeland. His decisions have an uncertain impact on the rangeland. The theory of finite Markov chains is used to analyze the solution to the control problem. The stochastic specification of the model is varied to test the sensitivity of the optimal policies. These are quite robust except at certain levels of the range condition. Cases of a risk-neutral and risk-averse manager are studied.
\f1\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf4 \cb1 \},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Larry Karp and Arden Pope and C Arden\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Markov chains, range management, stochastic control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Range Management under Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{84\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://ajae.oxfordjournals.org/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1966\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Regev1976,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The biological interactions of a pest-plant system are incorporated into an optimal pest-control model, using data and estimated parameters specific to the alfalfa weevil. Due to the externalities inherent in situations involving common property resource, different solutions are obtained for private and societal formulations of the optimization problem. In contrast to current pesticide-spraying practices, it is shown that pesticide should be applied early in the season, before any damage can be observed.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Uri Regev and Andrew P. Gutierrez and Gershon Feder\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/1238969\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0002-9092\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{aestivation, alfalfa weevil, common property resource, persticide\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{186-197\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Wiley\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Pests as a Common Property Resource: A Case Study of Alfalfa Weevil Control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{58\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1976\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Virtala1992,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The optimal harvest policy for a plant-herbivore system consisting of lichen and reindeer in Finnish Lapland is investigated. Using a discrete time model with no age structure it is shown that the optimal procedure to reach target levels for lichen and reindeer involves a possible initial harvest of reindeer and then a sequence of no-harvest years until the lichen has recovered. After two adjusting harvest the system will settle to an equilibrium. The optimal solution is compared with the fastest possible approach to the target levels. The two solutions coincide if future yields are sufficiently discounted. With a discount factor near one there will be a heavier initial harvest in the optimal solution. It is seen that allowing some harvest also in the no-harvest years has no marked effect on the total yield. The target levels for lichen and reindeer are not unique but depend both on discounting and on the length of the planning period.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Matti Virtala\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0304-3800(92)90035-D\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3-4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{233-255\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest of a plant-hervibore system: lichen and reindeer in northern Finland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{60\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1992\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Shoemaker1979,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Optimal timing of pesticide applications depends upon many factors including pest population demography, crop susceptibility to damage, weather and the rate at which a pesticide loses its toxicity. An efficient numerical optimization procedure incorporating these factors is developed and applied to the control of the Egyptian alfalfa weevil [Hypera Brunneipennis (Boheman)]. The procedure differs from earlier approaches in that the state vector describes the schedule of previous pesticide applications. Population density and age structure are used indirectly in construction of an equation which estimates pest damage to the crop as a function of the state vector. This approach can be used to calculate optimal timing of multiple pesticide applications based on a more detailed population model than previously has been possible. Calculation of the optimal pesticide application schedule with 11 age classes and 28 decision periods required only 25 seconds of CPU time on an IBM 370/168 computer.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christine A. Shoemaker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/2530112\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006341X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biometrics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Age structure, Pestis management, dynamic-programming, optimization, pesticide\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{803\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{526526\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{JSTOR\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Timing of Multiple Applications of Pesticides with Residual Toxicity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{35\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1979\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Talpaz1978,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A simulation model of interaction between the boll weevil insect subsystem and the cotton plant subsystem is presented. Field experiments provide the basis for validation of the model. Pesticide control scheme is introduced, and optimalcontrol is achieved by using a numerical nonlinear dynamic optimization technique. Results of sensitivity analysis with respect to price changes are provided. Optimal policy for a single producer calls for three applications. Timing is robust, but dosage levels are sensitive to price changes.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{H. Talpaz and G. L. Curry and P. J. H. Sharpe and D. W. DeMichele and R. E. Frisbie\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/1239944\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1467-8276\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{boll weevil, cotton simulation, nonlinear optimization, optimal pesticide control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{469-475\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Pesticide Application for Controlling the Boll Weevil on Cotton\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{60\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.2307/1239944 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.2307/1239944 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.2307/1239944\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1978\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Liu2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Optimal harvest of a stochastic predator-prey model is considered in this paper. Sufficient and necessary criteria for the existence of optimal harvest strategy are obtained. At the same time, the optimal harvest effort and the maximum of sustainable yield are given.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Meng Liu and Chuanzhi Bai\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.AML.2014.03.006\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0893-9659\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Applied Mathematics Letters\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Optimal harvest strategy, Predator-prey model, Random perturbations\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{22-26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Pergamon\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest policy for a stochastic predator-prey model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{34\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hall1973,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The model developed by J. C. Headley to illustrate the entomologists' concept of the economic threshold is presented and criticized. A two-variable model directed at the problems of optimal timing and pesticide application as well as optimal pest population level is presented.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Darwin C. Hall and Richard B. Norgaard\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/1238437\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0002-9092\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{198-201\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Wiley\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{On the Timing and Application of Pesticides\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{55\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1973\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hueth1974,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The effect of increasing pest resistance to insecticides on the optimalcontrol of a pest population is investigated by constructing a single-pest, single-crop management model and analyzing the resulting optimality conditions. Use of insecticides under these conditions results in both monetary cost and user cost. It is suggested that growers do not generally consider these user cost and therefore do not obtain maximum profits. The dynamic formulation of the model results in an extension of the literature dealing with the "economic-threshold," which under reasonable conditions is shown to be increasing during the course of the season.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{D Hueth and U Regev\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{economic threshold, pest resistance, user-cost\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Agricultural Pest Management with Increasing Pest Resistance\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{56\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://ajae.oxfordjournals.org/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1974\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Fleming2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Ecologists frequently note the importance of modeling entire ecosystem rather than individual species, but most bioeconomic model in the current literature focus on a single species. While the mathematical difficulty of modeling multiple species may be substantial, it is important to recognise the implications of the single-species assumption to a model's results. In this paper, the authors address the economic significance of this assumption through the development of an analytical multiple-species model and demonstrate the importance of ecological interrelationships and economic value to the survival of endangeredspecies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christopher M. Fleming and Robert R. Alexander\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0304-3800(03)00227-8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic model, Conservation, Economics, endangeredspecies, Wildlife\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{203-211\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Single-species versus multiple-species model: the economic implications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{170\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Damania2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Unsustainable bushmeat hunting is a major threat to mammal species, particularly in West/Central Africa. We developed a multispecies dynamic simulation model of hunter behaviour, parameterized using data from the Ashanti region, Ghana. The model distinguishes between two hunting techniques, snaring and gun hunting. We analyse the impact of key economic parameters on off takes. Economic incentives determine the effort devoted to hunting, the choice of hunting technique, and the species that are consumed domestically or traded in markets. These factors, together with the growth rates and catchabilities of hunted species, determine the ecological impact of hunting. The results suggest that increased bushmeat prices are likely to lead to a switch from snaring, which is cheaper but less efficient, to gun hunting, with a consequent impact on vulnerable species. Increases in agricultural prices have an ambiguous effect on hunter behaviour, depending on the balance between incentives to invest in agriculture and increased consumption as incomes improve. Penalties are more effective if they target bushmeat sales, rather than the act of hunting. This model represents a step forward because it explicitly considers bushmeat as a component of the household economy. This has important implications as regards the development of policyto conserve species hunted for bushmeat.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{R. Damania and E. J. Milner-Gulland and D. J. Crookes\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1098/RSPB.2004.2945\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{14712970\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1560\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Ashanti, Ghana, agriculture, gun hunting, household economy, snaring\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{259-266\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{15705550\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{\cf3 \
\cf4 				The Royal Society\cf3 \
\cf4 			\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A bioeconomic analysis of bushmeat hunting\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{272\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/abs/10.1098/rspb.2004.2945\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Barbier2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper investigates the relationships among landuse change, biological invasion, and interspecific competition in a tropical ecosystem by linking a behavioral model of land conversion by agriculture and an ecological model of interspecific competition between a native species and an exotic invader. The model is used to examine how relative farm prices and access to forest areas influence land clearing and thus the ability of the invasivespecies to eliminate the native species. Simulations show that only a 20% rise in relative prices and a 2.75% increase in forest access are necessary for this outcome to occur.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Edward B. Barbier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/s107407080002900x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1074-0708\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{s1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Agricultural and Applied Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{133-147\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Cambridge University Press (CUP)\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Land Conversion, Interspecific Competition, and Bioinvasion in a Tropical Ecosystem\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{39\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hastings2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The problem of invasivespecies and their control is one of the most pressing applied issues in ecology today. We developed simple approaches based on linear programming for determining the optimal removal strategy of different stage or age classes for control of invasivespecies that are still in a density-independent phase of growth. We illustrate the application of this method to the specific example of invasive spartniaalterniflora in Willapa Bay, WA. For all such systems, linear programming shows in general that the optimal strategy in any time step is to prioritize removal of a single age or stage class. The optimal strategy adjusts which class is the focus of control through time and can be much more costeffective than prioritizing removal of the same stage class each year.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Alan Hastings and Richard J. Hall and Caz M. Taylor\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.TPB.2006.05.003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0040-5809\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Theoretical Population Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biological invasions, Eradication, Linear programming, spartniaalterniflora\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{431-435\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{16814824\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A simple approach to optimalcontrol of invasivespecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kim2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We present a conceptual, but empirically applicable, model for determining the optimal allocation of resource between exclusion and control activities for management an invasivespecies with an uncertain discovery time. This model is used to investigate how to allocate limited resource between activities before and after the first discovery of an invasivespecies and the effects of the characteristics of an invasivespecies on limited resource allocation. The optimality conditions show that it is economically efficient to spend a larger share of outlays for exclusion activities before, rather than after, a species is first discovered, up to a threshold point. We also find that, after discovery, more exclusionary measures and fewer control measures are optimal, when the pest population is less than a threshold. As the pest population increases beyond this threshold, the exclusionary measures are no longer optimal. Finally, a comparative dynamic analysis indicates that the efficient level of total expenditures on preventive and control measures decreases with the level of the invasivespecies stock and increases with the intrinsic population growth rate, the rate of additional discoveries avoided, and the maximum possible pest population.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{C. S. Kim and Ruben N. Lubowski and Jan Lewandrowski and Mark E. Eiswerth\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/S1068280500010030\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{10682805\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural and Resource Economics Review\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Control, Eradication, Exclusion, invasivespecies, Public expenditures\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{29-40\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Northeastern Agricultural and Resource Economics Association (NAREA)\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Prevention or control: Optimal government policyfor invasivespecies management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{35\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Taylor2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{1. There are very few general guidelines available to improve the process of eradicating invasivespecies. We addressed the basic question of whether it is more efficient to prioritize the removal of outliers or core populations of an invasive grass, spartniaalterniflora. 2. We used a structured model in which the population of the invasivespecies is partitioned into different classes based on local conspecific density in order to investigate density-based eradication strategy. 3. The Spartina population at a Pacific coast estuary in Washington state, USA, is subject to an Allee effect: at low density plants produce fewer propagules than in high-density coalesced meadows. Plants at low density, however, are able to spread faster vegetatively. We used a genetic algorithm to find the optimal division of resource between removal of high-density and low-density plants. We explored the consequences of the Allee effect, contrasting financial budgets available for control operations and the inclusion of seedling control in addition to the control of mature plants. 4. We found that the optimal strategy was dependent on the annual budget available for control. At low and medium budgets, it was necessary to remove the low-density plants first to achieve eradication, but if more money was available then the optimal strategy was to prioritize high-density areas. 5. Without an Allee effect the optimal strategy would always be to prioritize the removal of fast-growing, low-density sub-populations. Seedling control did not change the optimal strategy but did, in some cases, reduce the cost of eradication. 6. Synthesis and applications. Given the uncertainty in future budgets allocated for control of invasive Spartina , we recommend a strategy that prioritizes the removal of low-density subpopulations of S. alterniflora over high-density subpopulations. The Allee effect in this system is not sufficiently strong to outweigh the importance of the rapid vegetative spread of the plants at low density.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Caz M Taylor and Alan Hastings\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Applied Ecology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Allee effect, spartniaalterniflora, biological invasions, depensation, eradication, genetic algorithm, pollen limitation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1049-1057\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Finding optimalcontrol strategy for invasivespecies: a density-structured model for spartniaalterniflora\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{41\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Saphores2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Using a real options framework in continuous time, we examine two problems associated with the management of exotic pests under uncertainty. First, we analyze the optimal timing of investing in a control action. Given fixed control cost, we obtain a closed-form solution for when to control an exotic pest whose density varies randomly. Second, we define an analytical framework for finding the optimal expenditures for obtaining the relevant bioeconomic data. Our numerical results, based on a wide range of bioeconomic parameters, highlight the importance of accounting for uncertainty and irreversibility when developing simple rules to manage exotic pests.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Jean Daniel M. Saphores and Jason F. Shogren\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2004.04.012\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic investigations, Exotic species, Irreversibility, Real options, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{327-339\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{management exotic pests under uncertainty: optimalcontrol actions and bioeconomic investigations\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{52\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Perrings2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Biological invasions are recognised to be a problem of growing severity. Human pathogens, weeds or pests in terrestrial system and dominant alien species in freshwater or marine aquatic system all impose significant cost in terms of forgone output or cost of control in every major system. Like many of the other environmental consequences of globalisation, biological invasions require that decisions be taken under uncertainty. Decision-makers in such circumstances have to choose between two main strategy: mitigation and adaptation. This paper characterises invasivespecies problems in terms of the properties of the stochastic processes they induce. It considers how mitigation and adaptation strategy may be modelled, and identifies the conditions in which each approach may be efficient and effective.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Charles Perrings\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2004.08.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3 SPEC. ISS.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Adaptation, invasivespecies, Mitigation, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{315-325\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Mitigation and adaptation strategy for the control of biological invasions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{52\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bhat2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper characterizes a dynamic contract that allows renegotiation and variable transfer payments (VTP) between owners of two independently-harvested, ecologically-dependent mammal populations. The decision environment is modeled as a two-person differential game. We develop a recursive-efficiency criterion that forms the basis for determining the size of the VTP, which makes the bargaining contract renegotiation-proof and self-enforcing. We further show that the VTP is just as Pareto-efficient as a lump sum or fixed annual transfer payment. A nuisance wildlife species management forms a basis for numerical illustration\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Mahadev G. Bhat and Ray G. Huffaker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jeem.2006.04.002\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00950696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bargaining agreements, Differential games, Migratory population, Renegotiation proofness, Variable transfer payments\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{54-67\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Management of a transboundary wildlife population: A self-enforcing cooperative agreement with renegotiation and variable transfer payments\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{53\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Kaiser2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Economic impacts from invasivespecies, conveyed as expected damages to assets from invasion and expected cost of successful prevention and/or removal, may vary significantly across spatially differentiated landscapes. We develop a spatial-dynamic model for optimal early detection and rapid response (EDRR) policies, commonly exploited in the management of potential invaders around the world, and apply it to the case of the Brown treenake (Boiga irregularis) in Oahu, Hawaii. EDRR consists of search activities beyond the ports of entry, where search (and potentially removal) efforts are targeted toward areas where credible evidence suggests the presence of an invader. EDRR cost are a spatially dependent variable related to the ease or difficulty of searching an area, while damages are assumed to be a population-dependent variable. A myopic strategy in which search only occurs when and where current expected net returns are positive is attractive to managers, and, we find, significantly lowers present value losses (by $270 m over 30 years). We find further that in the tradeoff between search cost and damages avoided, early and aggressive measures that search some high priority areas beyond points of entry even when current cost of search exceed current damages can save the island more ($295 m over 30 years). Extensive or non-targeted search is not advised however.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Brooks A. Kaiser and Kimberly M. Burnett\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.reseneeco.2010.04.007\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Brown treenake, Early detection and rapid response, GIS, Hawaii, invasivespecies, Spatial analysis\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{566-585\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatial economic analysis of early detection and rapid response strategy for an invasivespecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{32\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Feder1975,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The problem of pest control is tackled in a context of an ecosystem that consists of prey-predator populations with human interaction through pesticide application. The control, aimed at reducing pest damage, results in two undesirable external effects: reduction of beneficial predator population and environmental contamination. The untapped natural equilibrium is compared with equilibrium resulting from decentralized and centralized economic decision making. It is shown that, under certain conditions, myopic decision rules increase rather than decrease the pest damage. The "user cost" (or benefit) is shown to be crucial in determining the optimal centralized policy, and its relations to the various components of the system are analyzed. The components of the user cost are analyzed to determine the level of taxes or subsidies that will yield the optimal policy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{G. Feder and U. Regev\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0095-0696(75)90001-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{75-91\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biological interactions and environmental effects in the economics of pest control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1975\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Richards2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Invasive insect species represent perhaps one of the most significant potential sources of economic risk to U.S. agricultural production. Private control of invasive insect species is likely to be insufficient due to negative externality and weaker-link public good problems. In this study, we compare a system of Pigouvian taxes with tradable permits for invasivespecies control. While the emissions control literature shows that taxes are preferred to permits under cost uncertainty, invasivespecies control involves correlated cost and benefit uncertainty. Hence, we expect a quantity-based system to be preferred. Monte Carlo simulations of optimal steadystate outcomes confirm our expectations.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Timothy J Richards and Peter Ellsworth and Russell Tronstad and Stve Naranjo\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{externalities, invasivespecies, optimalcontrol, permits, spatial temporal model, taxes\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Market-Based Instruments for the optimalcontrol of Invasive Insect Species: B. Tabaci in Arizona on JSTOR\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{35\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.jstor.org/stable/23243060\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Sims2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In this paper, we develop a bioeconomic model of timber harvest that includes dynamic interactions between mountain pine beetle (MPB) and a lodgepole pine forest with a disaggregated size structure. The model is used to investigate the consequences of alternative public management strategy on forest dynamic in the presence of MPB outbreaks. Management practices similar to those commonly practiced are shown to increase the severity of MPB cycles. Centrally coordinated forest management can eliminate MPB cycles and lessen the impacts of MPB outbreaks with only small reductions in the long-run stock of adult tree.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Charles Sims and David Aadland and David Finnoff\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jedc.2010.06.010\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{01651889\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Economic dynamic and Control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Cycles, Mountain pine beetle, Public forest management, Stock externality\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{2407-2419\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A dynamic bioeconomic analysis of mountain pine beetle epidemics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{34\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Burnett2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We develop an integrated model for the prevention and control of an invasivespecies. The generality of the model allows its use for both existing and potential threats to the system of interest. The deterministic nature of arrivals in the model enables clear examination of the tradeoffs inherent when choosing between prevention and control strategy. We illuminate how optimal expenditure paths change in response to various biological and economic parameters for the case of the Brown Tree Snake in Hawaii. Results suggest that it is more advantageous to spend money finding the small population of snakes as they occur than attempting to prevent all future introductions. Like the drunk that looks for his keys only where the light is, public policy may fail to look "beyond the lamppost" for snakes that have already arrived but have not yet been detected. Actively searching for a potential population of snakes rather than waiting for an accidental discovery may save Hawaii tens to hundreds of millions of dollars in future damages, interdiction expenditures, and control cost\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kimberly M. Burnett and Sean D'Evelyn and Brooks A. Kaiser and Porntawee Nantamanasikarn and James A. Roumasset\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2007.11.012\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Boiga irregularis, Brown Tree Snake, Hawaii, invasivespecies, Prevention and control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{66-74\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Beyond the lamppost: Optimal prevention and control of the Brown Tree Snake in Hawaii\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{67\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Burnett2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{invasivespecies change ecosystem and the economic services such ecosystem provide. Optimal policy will minimize the expected damages and cost of prevention and control. We seek to explain policy outcomes as a function of biological and economic factors, using the case of Hawaii to illustrate. First, we consider an existing invader, miconiacalvescens, a plant with the potential to reduce biodiversity, soil cover, and water availability. We then examine an imminent threat, the potential arrival of the Brown treenake (Boiga irregularis). The arrival of the snake in Guam has led to native bird extirpations, power outages, and health cost.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kimberly Burnett and Brooks Kaiser and Basharat A. Pitafi and James Roumasset\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1017/S1068280500010066\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1068-2805\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural and Resource Economics Review\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Boiga irregularis, miconiacalvescens, bioeconomics, invasivespecies, optimalcontrol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{63-77\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Cambridge University Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Prevention, Eradication, and Containment of invasivespecies: Illustrations from Hawaii\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{35\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/agricultural-and-resource-economics-review/article/abs/prevention-eradication-and-containment-of-invasivespecies-illustrations-from-hawaii/C816A69FA485EB823411F189F947E612\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Pannell1990,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A biologically realistic model of crop yield response to herbicide application is presented. It includes functions for weed mortality from herbicide application and yield loss due to surviving weeds. The optimal herbicide rate and two types of decision thresholds are derived theoretically and illustrated with empirical examples. Responses of the various decision criteria to changes in parameters are also examined theoretically and empirically. A multidimensional threshold for weeds based on weed density and weed-free yield is presented. The issue of farmers using other than officially recommended herbicide rates is discussed.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{David J. Pannell\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1467-8489.1990.TB00497.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1467-8489\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Australian Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{223-241\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{An Economic Response Model of Herbicide Application for Weed Control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{34\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1467-8489.1990.tb00497.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1467-8489.1990.tb00497.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-8489.1990.tb00497.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1990\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Deen1993,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A model of weed control, which took into account the stochastic nature of crop price, yield, and weed density, was developed to assist farmers in determining weed densities that justify herbicide application and the optimal rate of application. In an application of cocklebur control in soybeans, it was found that the value of following the "if-then-else" treatment strategy versus a fixed application rate regardless of weed density was approximately $25 per acre at low weed numbers. Profits of the marginal treatment strategy are higher than the "if-then-else" strategy, but may not be sufficient to cover the additional informational cost. Under both strategy, the total amount of herbicide applied decreases with increases in uncertainty under the assumption of risk neutrality. The result is due to the convex relationship between weed density and yield loss. Under the assumption of maximizing expected utility, there are instances in which herbicide use increases with risk aversion as per conventional wisdom.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{William Deen and Alfons Weersink and Calum G. Turvey and Susan Weaver\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/1349710\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{10587195\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Review of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{39\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford University Press (OUP)\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Weed Control Decision Rules under Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{15\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1993\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Saphores2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Using real options, this paper formulates an optimal stopping model for applying pest control measures when the density of a pest population varies randomly. A delay between successive pesticide applications is introduced to analyze the farmer's expected marginal cost of reentry. This model is applied to the control of a foliar pest of apples via a pesticide, and is solved numerically. A sensitivity analysis shows that the pest density that should trigger pesticide use can vary significantly with the pest density volatility. Incorporating pest randomness into sample decision rules may thus help better manage the chemicals applied to soils and crops.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Jean Daniel M. Saphores\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/0002-9092.00045\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1467-8276\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{pest control, real options, reentry, uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{541-555\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Economic Threshold with a Stochastic Pest Population: A Real Options Approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{82\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/0002-9092.00045 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/0002-9092.00045 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0002-9092.00045\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Haight2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The presence of invasivespecies is often not realized until well after the species becomes established. Discovering the location and extent of infestation before the invasivespecies causes widespread damage typically requires intensive monitoring efforts. In this paper, we analyze the problem of controlling an invasivespecies when there is imperfect information about the degree of infestation. We model the problem as a partially observable Markov decision process in which the decision-maker receives an imperfect signal about the level of infestation. The decision-maker then chooses a management action to minimize expected cost based on beliefs about the level of infestation. We apply this model to a simple application with three possible levels of infestation where the decision-maker can choose to take no action, only monitor, only treat, or do both monitoring and treatment jointly. We solve for optimalmanagement as a function of beliefs about the level of infestation. For a case with positive monitoring and treatment cost, we find that the optimal policy involves choosing no action when there is a sufficiently large probability of no infestation, monitoring alone with intermediate probability value and treatment alone when the probability of moderate or high infestation is large. We also show how optimalmanagement and expected cost change as the cost or quality of information from monitoring changes. With costless and perfect monitoring, expected cost are 20-30% lower across the range of belief states relative to the expected cost without monitoring.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Robert G. Haight and Stephen Polasky\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.reseneeco.2010.04.005\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{dynamic-programming, invasivespecies, Monitoring, optimalmanagement, Partially observable Markov decision process\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{519-533\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{optimalcontrol of an invasivespecies with imperfect information about the level of infestation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{32\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Zhang2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{By their direct effects on private profitability, invasive agricultural pests create special incentives for management that set them apart from other categories of invasivespecies. One attractive nonchemical management approach for agricultural pests relies upon biological control by natural enemies. By improving the habitat of natural enemies of invasive agricultural pests, biological pest control can become privately attractive. This study develops a spatial optimization model to explore economically optimal spatial configuration of natural enemy habitat in agricultural landscapes. The model is applied to the management of soybean aphid (Aphis glycines), a recent invasive pest species of soybean production system in the North Central region of the United States. Results indicate that non-crop habitat management can be a promising pest management option for organic cropping systems. Under current prices, however, habitat management tends to reduce net returns for conventional farms. Both area and configuration of non-crop habitats affect economic performance, with the greatest value coming from small, scattered areas of habitat.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Wei Zhang and Wopke van der Werf and Scott M. Swinton\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.RESENEECO.2010.04.006\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0928-7655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Habitat management, invasivespecies, Natural enemies, Soybean aphid, Spatial configuration\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{551-565\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{North-Holland\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatially optimal habitat management for enhancing natural control of an invasive agricultural pest: Soybean aphid\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{32\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Reed1974,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An optimal economic harvest policy, which maximizes the present value of an animal population, capable of renewing itself, is discussed. It is assumed that, unhindered, the successive population levels, Xn, form a Markov chain, with transitions Xn+1=f\\\{hook\\\}(Xn) + \'ce\'b5\\\{lunate\\\}nf\\\{hook\\\}(Xn), where f is the recruitment function, and \\\{\'ce\'b5\\\{lunate\\\}n\\\} is an iid sequence of random shocks. When a positive set-up cost is present an optimal policy is of the (S,s) type. The optimal population level is compared with that of an equivalent deterministic model. Bioeconomic conditions, which imply the optimality of conservation, or extinction are investigated.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{William J. Reed\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0025-5564(74)90097-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0025-5564\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{C\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Mathematical Biosciences\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{313-337\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A stochastic model for the economic management of a renewable animal resource\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1974\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Reed1979,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A constant-escapement feedback policy is shown to be optimal in maximizing expected discounted net revenue from an animal resource whose dynamic are described by a stochastic stock-recruitment model, provided that unit harvest cost satisfy certain conditions. The optimal escapement in this model is compared with that in the corresponding deterministic model and it is shown how the way in which unit harvest cost vary with population abundance can be important in determining the relative sizes of the optimal escapements. In most cases, the optimal stochastic escapement is no less than the optimal deterministic escapement.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{William J. Reed\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0095-0696(79)90014-7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{350-363\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal escapement levels in stochastic and deterministic harvest model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1979\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Jensen2016,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A number of methods exist for estimating the size of animal populations. All methods generate an uncertain estimate of population size, and have different properties, which can be taken into account when designing regulation. We consider hunting regulation when the population size is uncertain and when the self-reported bag is used to estimate the population size. The properties of a population tax and a tax on self-reported bag are analyzed and we begin by considering a baseline situation with full certainty and no use of self-reporting for population size estimation. Here individual hunters self-report a bag on zero and a population tax alone can secure an optimum. Next we show that when facing uncertain population size, a risk-averse hunter will self-report part of the bag to reduce the uncertain population tax payment, making both tax instruments necessary for reaching an optimum. Finally, when self-reported bag is used to estimate population size, we also show that it is optimal for hunters to report a part of the bag and both instruments are again necessary for reaching an optimum.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Frank Jensen and Jette Bredahl Jacobsen and Bo Jellesmark Thorsen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jfe.2016.06.004\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{16181530\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Forest Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bag, Hunting, Regulatory instruments, Self-reporting, Stock uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{157-171\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier GmbH\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Designing hunting regulation under population uncertainty and self-reporting\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{24\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2016\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Costello2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Variations in environmental conditions affect renewable resource growth. The ability to predict such variations is improving, providing scope for improved management. We generalize a common stochastic stock recruitment model to explore how optimalmanagement changes with environmental prediction. We obtain three main results. First, while it might seem that a prediction of adverse future conditions should lead to more conservative management, the opposite may be true. Second, optimalmanagement requires only a one-period-ahead forecast , suggesting forecast accuracy is more important than forecast lead time. Finally, we derive conditions on environmental fluctuations guaranteeing positive optimal harvest in every period.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christopher Costello and Stephen Polasky and Andrew Solow\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Canadian Journal of Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Renewable resource management with environmental prediction\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{34\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Ding2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An epidemic model for rabies in raccoons is formulated with discrete time and spatial features. The goal is to analyze the strategy for optimal distribution of vaccine baits to minimize the spread of the disease and the cost of implementing the control. Discrete optimalcontrol techniques are used to derive the optimality system, which is then solved numerically to illustrate various scenarios\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Wandi Ding and Louis J. Gross and Keith Langston and Suzanne Lenhart and Leslie A. Real\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1080/17513750701605515\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{17513766\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Biological dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Discrete model, optimalcontrol, Rabies in raccoons, Vaccine\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{379-393\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{22876823\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{ Taylor & Francis \},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Rabies in raccoons: optimalcontrol for a discrete time model on a spatial grid\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17513750701605515\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Feder1979,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Gershon Feder\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2307/1239507\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1467-8276\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{American Journal of Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{97-103\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Pesticides, Information, and Pest Management under Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{61\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.2307/1239507 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.2307/1239507 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.2307/1239507\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1979\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Shoemaker1982,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A procedure is presented for calculating optima integration and timing of biological, chemical and cultural methods for control of a univoltine pest population in a random environment. The procedure describes a system of high dimension by two nested model: a stochastic dynamic-programming problem with four state variables and a more detailed differential equation model describing the effect of management and weather on population demography and crop yield. A computational algorithm is presented which reduces computation requirements for the population model from about 1013 operations to 106 operations for a typical example. Results are presented from the application of the method to control the alfalfa weevil by a combination of insecticide applications, early harvest, and biological control provided by a parasite.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christine A Shoemaker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Operations Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{40-61\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Integrated Control of Univoltine Pest Populations with Age Structure\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{30\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1982\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Anita1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Here we investigate an optimal harvest problem for a nonlinear age-dependent population dynamic. Existence and uniqueness of a positive solution for the model are demonstrated. The structure of the solution is also investigated. We establish the existence of the optimalcontrol and the convergence of a certain fractional step scheme. For some approximating problems we obtain the optimalcontrollers in feedback form via the dynamic-programming method.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Sebastian Anita\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal Of Mathematical Analysis and Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest for a Nonlinear Age-Dependent Population dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{226\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Barbu1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The present paper is concerned with the optimalcontrol problem for a Gurtin MacCamy type system describing the evolution of an age-structured population. Necessary optimality conditions are established in the form of an Euler Lagrange system and existence of an optimalcontrol is proved using the Ekeland principle.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{V. Barbu and M. Iannelli\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1023/A:1021865709529\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1573-2878\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Optimization Theory and Applications 1999 102:1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Applications of Mathematics, Calculus of Variations and optimalcontrol, Engineering, Operations Research/  Decision Theory, Optimization, Theory of Computation, general\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1-14\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{optimalcontrol of Population dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{102\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1021865709529\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Murphy1990,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Here we investigate the optimal harvest of an age-structured population. We use the McKendrick model of population dynamic, and optimize a discounted yield on an infinite time horizon. The harvest function is allowed to depend arbitrarily on age and time and its magnitude is unconstrained. We obtain, in addition to existence, the qualitative result that an optimal harvest policy consists of harvest at no more than three distinct ages.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L F Murphy and S J Smith\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Mathematical Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Age-structure, harvest, Population dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{77-90\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest of an age-structured population\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{29\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1990\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Skonhoft1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The paper analyses economic and ecological mechanisms determining wildlife investments in the context of pastoral exploitation of the semi-arid African rangeland. We consider a group of pastoralists practising two production activities, cattle herding and wildlife harvest. Livestock and wildlife interact with each other as there is competition for grazing land. A bioeconomic model is formulated to analyse this interaction and the pastoralist's optimal degree of investments in livestock and wildlife. The factors working in the direction of threatening the wildlife are identified. Next, the management problem is analysed in a conservation perspective where CITES-policyare imposed, and where there is international payment for conservation of endangeredspecies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anders Skonhoft and Jan Tore Solstad\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of African Economies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{237-262\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Investing in Wildlife: Can Wildlife Pay its Way?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://jae.oxfordjournals.org/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Nilsen2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We present a bioeconomic model for moose Alces alces management in Norway, where two sub-populations of moose are subject to different site-specific mortality rates caused by the spatial distribution of territorial wolf canislupus packs, and are coupled by the seasonal migration of moose. The cost and benefits of moose are asymmetrically distributed in space, since they congregate in the wolf territory during winter where most browsing damage occurs. Using a class-structured matrix population model as the basis for bioeconomic analysis, we investigated how the optimal moose management differed between a unified (i.e. maximising overall profit) and a non-unified (i.e. profit maximised at the level of individual landowners) management scheme. Within the unified management scheme, the combined marginal cost and benefits decide the optimal off-take rate, and the relative hunting value and damage cost decide the relative allocation of the harvest between the two sub-populations. In the non-unified management scheme, harvest takes place up to the point where the private marginal hunting value equals the private marginal browsing cost, while the relative hunting value and damage cost do not influence the optimalmanagement. As the browsing damage that occurs inside the wolf territory is not taken into account in the cost of the area outside the territory within the non-unified solution, optimal moose population size will be higher for the outer area than under the unified solution. This results in an overall economic loss, which increases with increasing migration rates. Whenever the boundaries of political or management units do not follow those of ecological processes, ignoring the spatial resolution of the ecological process will result in sub-optimalmanagement of a renewable resource.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Erlend B. Nilsen and Anders Skonhoft and Atle Mysterud and Jos M. Milner and Erling J. Solberg and Harry P. Andreassen and Nils Chr Stenseth\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.2981/06-084\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09096396\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Wildlife Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Alces alces, Bioeconomics, canislupus, harvest, Migration, Moose, Sustainable development, Wolf\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{10-23\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The role of ecological and economic factors in the management of a spatially structured moose alces alces population\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{15\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/233682393_The_Role_of_Ecological_and_Economic_Factors_in_the_Management_of_a_Spatially_Structured_Moose_Alces_alces_Population\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Li2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We consider some optimal harvest policyfor a general stochastic Logistic population model. For two management objectives, that are maximum sustainable yield and the maximum retained profits, the optimal harvest policyare obtained. Meanwhile, the optimal harvest effort, the maximum of expectation of sustainable yield (or retained profits) and the corresponding variance are given.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Wenxue Li and Ke Wang\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.JMAA.2010.04.002\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0022-247X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Fokker-Planck equation, Optimal harvest policies, Stochastic Logistic equation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{420-428\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest policy for general stochastic Logistic population model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{368\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Behrens2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Attracting visitors to an alpine national park can open up additional sources of funding for species conservation. However, tourism also brings ecologically negative impacts to the park and, in particular, to endangeredspecies. In this paper, we discuss the handling of this two-edged effect of nature-based tourism within the context of a national park's management decision. We develop a stylized model which frames the interaction of a representative largely unknown species, its habitat, and park visitors in an alpine ecosystem. In applying this to the protection of a rock partridge population in the Hohe Tauern National Park (Austria), we illustrate that a combined visitor and species protection policy can maximize steady state net benefits from tourism and conservation, while ensuring that the endangeredspecies reaches its conservation target in the long run. Thus, even for a small, largely unknown species such as the rock partridge, and not only for popular species like the golden eagle, it is possible to endogenously generate a conservation budget by attracting visitors\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Doris A. Behrens and Birgit Bednar-Friedl and Michael Getzner\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10100-009-0087-1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1435246X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Central European Journal of Operations Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Food-chain model, Nature-based tourism, Optimal policy mix, Protected area management, Species conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{233-253\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Sustainable management of an alpine national park: Handling the two-edged effect of tourism\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/225653989_Sustainable_management_of_an_alpine_national_park_Handling_the_two-edged_effect_of_tourism\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Wacker1999,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Optimal utilization of a regenerative natural resource is already well developed in the single species context. However, research into the economic utilization of ecologically interdependent system is still in its infancy. The paper uses optimalcontrol theory to \'c5\'bd. model dynamic interactions between two mutualistic regenerative natural resource. An optimal policy for society's management the system is derived. The outcome is compared with the standard theory of single-species harvest.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Holger Wacker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Dynamic interaction, Ecological mutualism, Multispecies management, optimalcontrol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{89-102\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal harvest of mutualistic ecological systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{21\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1999\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Elofsson2012,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Abstract In this paper, a numerical model is developed for analyzing the role of species life history and age structure for the optimalmanagement of a commercial resident species that is exposed to an invasivespecies. It is shown that reproduction and mortality characteristics of both species ands age structure of the invader at the time of invasion are important for the cost of invasions when the invader and resident species compete for scarce resource. Commercially harvested species with low juvenile survival and high reproduction are found to be economically more robust against invasions. Species with these life-history traits are also the most damaging as invaders. Properties of the harvest cost function and the discount rate are shown to be of importance for the development of the invader population over time. Hence, it is possible to identify specific combinations of life-history characteristics and economic conditions under which invasions cause particularly large economic damage\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Katarina Elofsson and G\'c3\'b6ran Bengtsson and Ing Marie Gren\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1939-7445.2011.00115.X/FORMAT/PDF\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{08908575\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Age-structured model, cost, Harvest, invasivespecies, Numerical optimization, Resident species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{599-628\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{optimalmanagement of invasivespecies with different reproduction and survival strategy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{25\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2012\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Wilman1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In countries like New Zealand and Australia the native flora and fauna are both unique and highly susceptible to predation by immigrant species. Recognition of the value of retaining the native species has created a need to limit predation through pest management programs. One of the questions that often arises is whether the goal of pest management should be eradication or sustained harvest of the predator. This paper presents a formal model of pest management which allows the selection of a program containing elements of both the sustained harvest and eradication alternatives. An economic model which maximizes the present value of net benefits selects the program. The economic model incorporates information from a model of the predator-prey system, and the particular program chosen depends upon characteristics of the predator-prey system such as "stability" and "non-vulnerability".\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Elizabeth A Wilman\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{extinction, immigrant wildlife, pest management, predation, predator-prey system, wildlife economics, wildlife management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{139-147\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Pests: Sustained Harvest versus Eradication\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{46\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Aadland2015,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We develop a computationally efficient methodology to evaluate optimalmanagement in a spatially and temporally dynamic bioeconomic system. The method involves standard techniques from the macroeconomics literature to calculate approximately optimal linear decision rules. Iterations between the decision rules and the nonlinear biological system produce optimal transition paths over space and time. We then apply the methodology to forest management over a 6\'c3\'976 spatial grid where a pest insect (mountain pine beetles) preys on tree that provide a wide array of ecosystemservice. The method is sufficiently general to be applicable to a wide range of spatially and temporally dynamic economic systems.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{David Aadland and Charles Sims and David Finnoff\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10614-014-9442-y\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15729974\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Computational Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomics, Dynamic systems, Migration, Predator-prey model, Spatial model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    note = \{<br/>\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{545-577\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Kluwer Academic Publishers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatial dynamic of optimalmanagement in Bioeconomic Systems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{45\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Donlan2015,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Conservation practitioners are increasingly embracing evidence-based and return on investment (ROI) approaches. Much evidence now exists that documents island biodiversity impacts by invasive mammals. The technical ability to eradicate invasive mammals from islands has increased exponentially; consequently, strategic planning focused on maximizing the ROI is now a limiting factor for island restoration. We use a regional ROI approach to prioritize eradications on islands for seabird conservation in British Columbia, Canada. We do so by integrating economic cost of interventions and applying a resource allocation approach. We estimate the optimal set of islands for eradication under two conservation objectives each with a series of increasing thresholds of population sizes and breeding locations. Our approach (1) identified the most costeffective interventions, (2) determined whether or not those interventions were nested with increasing thresholds, and (3) helped justify larger investments when appropriate. More often than not, conservation decisions are made at a regional scale, and decision-makers often must make choices on how to allocate funds across a number of potential conservation actions. A regional, ROI framework can serve as a decision-support tool for organizations engaging in discrete interventions in order to maximize benefits for the minimum cost.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{C. Josh Donlan and Gloria M. Luque and Chris Wilcox\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/CONL.12126\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1755263X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Letters\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{British Columbia, Eradication, Invasive mammals, Prioritization, Raccoons, Rats, Seabirds\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{171-179\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Wiley-Blackwell\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Maximizing return on investment for island restoration and species conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/265131365_Maximizing_Return_on_Investment_for_Island_Restoration_and_Species_Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{EpanchinNiell2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Wood borers and bark beetles are among the most serious forest pests worldwide. Many such species have become successful invaders, often causing substantial, costly damages to forest. Here we design and evaluate the cost-efficiency of a trap-based surveillance program for early detection of wood borers and bark beetles at risk of establishing in New Zealand. Although costly, a surveillance program could lead to earlier detection of newly established forest pests, thereby increasing the likelihood of successful eradication and reducing control cost and damages from future invasions. We develop a mechanistic bioeconomic model that relates surveillance intensity (i.e., trap density) and invasion size to probabilities of detection and control. It captures the dynamic of invasivespecies establishment, spread, and damages to urban and plantation forest. We employ the model to design surveillance programs that provide the greatest net present benefits. Our findings suggest that implementing a surveillance trapping program for invasive wood borers and bark beetles would provide positive net benefits under all scenarios considered. The economically optimal trapping strategy calls for a very high investment in surveillance: about 10 000 traps in each year of the 30-year surveillance program, at a present value cost of US$54 million. This strategy provides a 39% reduction in cost compared with no surveillance, corresponding to an expected net present benefit of approximately US$300 million. Although surveillance may provide the greatest net benefits when implemented at relatively high levels, our findings also show that even low levels of surveillance are worthwhile: the economic benefits from surveillance more than offset the rising cost associated with increasing trapping density. Our results also show that the cost-efficiency of surveillance varies across target regions because of differences in pest introduction and damage accumulation rates across locales, with greater surveillance warranted in areas closer to at-risk, high-value resource and in areas that receive more imported goods that serve as an invasion pathway.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Rebecca S. Epanchin-Niell and Eckehard G. Brockerhoff and John M. Kean and James A. Turner\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1890/13-1331.1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1051-0761\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Animal Distribution, Animals, Biological, Conservation of Natural resource / economics, Conservation of Natural resource / methods, costbenefit Analysis, Insecta, Introduced Species / statistics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1258-1274\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{29160647\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Ecol Appl\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Designing cost-efficient surveillance for early detection and control of multiple biological invaders\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{24\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29160647/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Baker2017,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Determining how to costeffectively allocate resource for management invasivespecies is a notoriously difficult problem. invasivespecies control problems are always spatiotemporal, but much of the current theory about control strategy is either spatial or temporal. This article uses a deterministic spatiotemporal model of invasivespecies dynamic and identifies the optimalmanagement strategy across a range of situations. The optimal solution points a principle of targeting the source of the population, which in many cases is the region of the landscape where the invader is most abundant. The analysis presented here is the first capable of solving for optimal strategy for invasivespecies over large and irregular environments. Thus, it is an important step forward for both the understanding of control strategy and the application to management scenarios.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christopher M. Baker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/conl.12236\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1755263X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Letters\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{H. aurantiacum, hawkweed, invasivespecies management, optimalcontrol theory, optimization, partial differential equation, stratified diffusion\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{41-48\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Wiley-Blackwell\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Target the Source: Optimal Spatiotemporal Resource Allocation for invasivespecies Control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2017\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Fenichel2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Invasive pests cross property boundaries. Property managers may have private incentives to control invasivespecies despite not having sufficient incentive to fully internalize the external cost of their role in spreading the invasion. Each property manager has a right to future use of his own property, but his property may abut others' properties enabling spread of an invasivespecies. The incentives for a foresighted property manager to control invasivespecies have received little attention. We consider the efforts of a foresighted property manager who has rights to future use of a property and has the ability to engage in repeated, discrete control activities. We find that higher rates of dispersal, associated with proximity to neighboring properties, reduce the private incentives for control. Controlling species at one location provides incentives to control at a neighboring location. Control at neighboring locations are strategic complements and coupled with spatial heterogeneity lead to a weaker-link public good problem, in which each property owner is unable to fully appropriate the benefits of his own control activity. Future-use rights and private cost suggest that there is scope for a series of Coase-like exchanges to internalize much of the cost associated with species invasion. Pigouvian taxes on invasivespecies potentially have qualitatively perverse behavioral effects. A tax with a strong income effect (e.g., failure of effective revenue recycling) can reduce the value of property assets and diminish the incentive to manage insects on one's own property.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Eli P. Fenichel and Timothy J. Richards and David W. Shanafelt\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/s10640-013-9726-z\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09246460\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Asian citrus psyllid, Bioeconomics, Citrus, dynamic-programming, invasivespecies, propertyrights, Repeat optimal stopping, Spatial externalities, Value function approximation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{231-255\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Kluwer Academic Publishers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The Control of invasivespecies on Private Property with Neighbor-to-Neighbor Spillovers\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{59\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Liu2016,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper investigates the coordination problem in transboundary species invasions. When invasions impact commodity markets and control decisions are made by many producers, a spatial externality arises due to market-level impacts and delaying the invasion on neighboring parcels. We illustrate how the intrinsic spread rate and the spatial configuration of producers interact to determine the public benefits of private control decisions and the ultimate outcome of species invasions on private property. To coordinate responses to invasions at the market level, a corrective mechanism is suggested in which invaded producers are compensated by all other producers for control actions that alleviate impacts to other producers.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Yanxu Liu and Charles Sims\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.reseneeco.2016.01.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09287655\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Resource and Energy Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Agricultural cooperatives, Agricultural pests, Phytosanitary standards, Spatial-dynamic modeling, Trade restrictions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{23-38\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Spatial-dynamic externalities and coordination in invasivespecies control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{44\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2016\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{McDermott2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Economic growth is recognized as an important factor associated with species invasions. Consequently, there is increasing need to develop solutions that combine economics and ecology to inform invasivespecies management. We developed a model combining economic, ecological, and sociological factors to assess the degree to which economic policycan be used to control invasive plants. Because invasive plants often spread across numerous properties, we explored whether property owners should manage invaders cooperatively as a group by incorporating the negative effects of invader spread in management decisions (collective management) or independently, whereby the negative effects of invasive plant spread are ignored (independent management). Our modeling approach used a dynamic optimization framework, and we applied the model to invader spread using Linaria vulgaris. Model simulations allowed us to determine the optimalmanagement strategy based on net benefits for a range of invader densities. We found that optimalmanagement strategy varied as a function of initial plant densities. At low densities, net benefits were high for both collective and independent management to eradicate the invader, suggesting the importance of early detection and eradication. At moderate densities, collective management led to faster and more frequent invader eradication compared to independent management. When we used a financial penalty to ensure that independent properties were managed collectively, we found that the penalty would be most feasible when levied on a property's perimeter boundary to control spread among properties. At the highest densities, the optimalmanagement strategy was "do nothing" because the economic cost of removal were too high relative to the benefits of removal. Spatial variation in L. vulgaris densities resulted in different optimalmanagement strategy for neighboring properties, making a formal economic policy to encourage invasivespecies removal critical. To accomplish the management and enforcement of these economic policies, we discuss modification of existing agencies and infrastructure. Finally, a sensitivity analysis revealed that lowering the economic cost of invader removal would strongly increase the probability of invader eradication. Taken together, our results provide quantitative insight into management decisions and economic policy instruments that can encourage invasivespecies removal across a social landscape.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Shana M. McDermott and Rebecca E. Irwin and Brad W. Taylor\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1890/12-0649.1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1051-0761\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Animals, Biological, Ecosystem, Environmental Monitoring, Introduced Species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1086-1100\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{23967577\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Ecol Appl\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Using economic instruments to develop effective management of invasivespecies: insights from a bioeconomic model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{23\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23967577/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Carrasco2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Harmful nonindigenous species (NIS) introductions lead to loss of biodiversity and serious economic impacts. Government agencies have to decide on the allocation of limited resource to manage the risk posed by multiple NIS. Bioeconomic modeling has focused on single species and little is known about the optimalmanagement of multiple NIS using a common budget. A comprehensive bioeconomic model that considers the exclusion, detection and control of multiple NIS spreading by stratified dispersal and presenting Allee effects was developed and applied to manage the simultaneous risk posed by Colorado beetle, the bacterium causing potato ring rot and western corn rootworm in the UK. A genetic algorithm was used to study the optimalmanagement under uncertainty. optimalcontrol methods were used to interpret and verify the genetic algorithm solutions. The results show that government agencies should allocate less exclusion and more control resource to NIS characterised by Allee effects, low rate of satellite colonies generation and that present low propagule pressure. The prioritisation of NIS representative of potential NIS assemblages increases management efficiency. The adoption of management measures based on the risk analysis of a single NIS might not correspond to the optimal allocation of resource when other NIS share a common limited budget. Comprehensive bioeconomic modeling of multiple NIS where Allee effects and stratified dispersal are considered leads to a more costeffective allocation of limited resource for the management of NIS invasions.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{L. R. Carrasco and J. D. Mumford and A. MacLeod and J. D. Knight and R. H.A. Baker\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2010.02.001\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biosecurity, Genetic algorithm, Invasive alien species, optimalcontrol, Propagule pressure\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1303-1312\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Comprehensive bioeconomic modeling of multiple harmful nonindigenous species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{69\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Barbier2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We model biological invasions as an unintended by-product of capital accumulation. We distinguish three spillover effects: (1) a negative production externality, (2) a negative or positive consumption externality and (3) an increase in the risk of future welfare loss. We also consider the implications when households self-protect by allocating income to reduce the potential damages from a biological invasion. An optimal output tax for production externalities is straightforward and can be augmented in the case of negative or positive spillover effects on consumer welfare. policyto correct the effect of invasions on endogenous risk are more difficult to design.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Edward B. Barbier and Jason F. Shogren\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/ei/cbh083\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00952583\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Economic Inquiry\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{587-601\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Growth with endogenous risk of biological invasion\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{42\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bogich2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{1. Considerable effort is expended by national and local governments to exclude alien species via detection and eradication of invading populations, but these efforts are not necessarily designed in the most economically or biologically efficient manner. 2. Using the invasion of the European strain of the gypsymoth Lymantria dispar into the USA as a case study, we develop an analytical model to determine the optimal trap density for detecting isolated infestations. Most model focus on monitoring or eradication cost only; our model con siders the cost of both detection and eradication when determining the best monitoring strategy. 3. The model assumes that all isolated populations must be located and eradicated by the conclusion of a programme. For programmes lasting longer than 1 year, it is more worthwhile to proactively monitor and manage rather than to wait until the programme is over. 4. For a management programme of a given length, optimal trap density is most influenced by the growth rate of the infestation. Optimal trap densities are lowest for infestations with very low growth rates (because they remain small and therefore are less expensive to eradicate) or very high growth rates (because they are easier to detect), and highest for infestations with moderate growth rates (because they are neither inexpensive to eradicate nor easy to detect). 5. Our model is useful in setting a baseline level of monitoring for isolated incidents of gypsymoth invasion. Analysis of data in two US states show that actual trap densities are far higher than the optimal densities from the model. The difference suggests risk aversion may play a role in real systems. 6. Synthesis and applications. Our model suggests that we can improve the efficiency of detection and eradication programmes for isolated infestations by optimizing detection effort relative to infestation growth rates and management programme duration. It also clearly demonstrates the importance of balancing the cost and benefits of both detection and eradication when developing invasivespecies monitoring programmes. Key-words: cost minimization, detection, eradication, gypsymoth, Lymantria dispar, pheromone traps, risk aversion Introduction\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Tiffany L Bogich and Andrew M Liebhold and Katriona Shea\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Applied Ecology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1134-1142\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{To Sample or Eradicate? A Cost Minimization Model for Monitoring and management an invasivespecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{45\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://www.jstor.orgURL:http://www.jstor.org/stable/20144075\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Homans2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{We model optimal detection of sub-populations of invasivespecies that establish ahead of an advancing front. For many invaders, eradication of the main population is an untenable goal, yet it may be possible to treat and eradicate emerging sub-populations once these sub-populations are detected. We embed a dynamically optimal post-detection management plan of sub-populations into a model of optimal detection effort determination and find that optimal detection effort depends, in part, on the distance from the main front: locations closer to the front with shorter management horizons enjoy lower reductions in overall cost from intervention. The uninfested landscape is divided into two zones, characterized by different dynamically optimalmanagement plans: a suppression zone and an eradication zone. In the suppression zone, optimal detection effort increases with distance from the front. At the distance where the suppression zone yields to the eradication zone, optimal detection effort plateaus at its maximum level.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Frances Homans and Tetsuya Horie\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2011.01.004\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Detection, invasivespecies, Management over space\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1129-1138\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal detection strategy for an established invasive pest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Horie2013,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{costeffective strategy are needed to find and remove diseased tree in forest damaged by pathogens. We develop a model of cost-minimizing surveillance and control of forest pathogens across multiple sites where there is uncertainty about the extent of the infestation in each site and when the goal is to minimize the expected number of new infections. We allow for a heterogeneous landscape, where grid cells may be differentiated by the number of tree, the expected number of infected tree, rates of infection growth, and cost of surveillance and control. In our application to oak wilt in Anoka County, Minnesota, USA, we develop a cost curve associated with saving healthy tree from infection. Assuming an annual infection growth rate of 8%, a $1 million budget would save an expected 185 tree from infection for an average of $5400 per tree.We investigate how more precise prior estimates of disease and reduced detection sensitivity affect model performance. We evaluate rules of thumb, finding that prioritizing sites with high proportions of infected tree is best. Our model provides practical guidance about the spatial allocation of surveillance and control resource for well-studied forest pathogens when only modest information about their geographic distribution is available.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Tetsuya Horie and Robert G. Haight and Frances R. Homans and Robert C. Venette\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2012.09.017\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Ceratocystis fagacearum, Forest pathogens, optimalmanagement, Surveillance, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{78-85\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal strategy for the surveillance and control of forest pathogens: A case study with oak wilt\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{86\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2013\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Cacho2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Invasive organisms often exist at low densities at the beginning and end of eradication programs. As a consequence, such organisms are often difficult to find, particularly if they are dispersed long distances to unknown locations. In such circumstances, large amounts of money can be spent searching for invasive organisms without finding any. However, chance encounters between invasive organisms and private citizens can occur even when invasive organisms exist at low densities. Reports of these 'passive detections' may be a critically important source of information for public pest management agencies. Rates of reporting may be improved using bounty payments and increasing public awareness about the presence of the invader. To explore the importance of passive surveillance in general, and its interaction with active surveillance by pest management agencies, we developed a simulation model of the spread of an invasivespecies. Simulations conducted under alternative scenarios for detection rates and search effort applied demonstrate that even small increases in detection or reporting rates substantially reduced eradication cost and increased the probability of eradication. In circumstances where resource are insufficient to achieve eradication, the simulation model provides useful information on the minimum expenditure required to contain the invasion.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Oscar J. Cacho and Daniel Spring and Susan Hester and Ralph Mac Nally\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.envsoft.2009.10.014\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{13648152\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental modeling and Software\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Detection, Economics, Eradication, Passive surveillance, Search theory\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{444-454\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Allocating surveillance effort in the management of invasivespecies: A spatially-explicit model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{25\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Yemshanov2015,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Aim: We address the problem of geographically allocating scarce survey resource to detect pests in their pathways of introduction given information about their likelihood of movement between origins and destinations. We introduce a model for selecting destination sites for survey that departs from the aim of reducing propagule pressure (PP) in pest destinations and instead aims to increase monitoring of pest origins. The model is a maximum expected coverage problem (MECP), which maximizes the expected number of origins that are covered by the survey system, where an origin is covered if at least one of its transmission pathways connects to a surveyed destination. For comparison, we present two model that aim to reduce PP in destination sites. One model maximizes the expected number of transmission pathways that are covered by survey locations and the other maximizes the expected number of survey locations that have one or more pest introductions. Location: United States, Canada. Methods: We demonstrate the model by analysing the human-mediated spread of the emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire), a major pest of ash tree in North America, by visitors to campgrounds in central Canada and the US Midwest. The model incorporate estimates of spread rates from a network of campers travelling from approximately 6500 invaded domains to 266 uninvaded campgrounds in three Canadian provinces (Ontario, Quebec and Manitoba) and three US states (Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin). Results: The MECP and PP-based model solutions agreed for large surveillance budgets but exhibited differences when the budgets were small. These results stem from differences between the coverage-based objective in MECP and the PP-based metrics in the PP model. Main conclusions: Our comparison of MECP and PP-based model reveals the trade-offs between objectives. Overall, the MECP is generic and can be adapted to survey species that are spread via other human-mediated vectors.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Denys Yemshanov and Robert G. Haight and Frank H. Koch and Bo Lu and Robert Venette and D. Barry Lyons and Taylor Scarr and Krista Ryall\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/ddi.12358\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{14724642\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Diversity and Distributions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Emerald ash borer, Human-mediated spread, invasivespecies, Maximum expected coverage problem, Optimal survey allocation, Pathways, Propagule pressure\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1349-1359\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Blackwell Publishing Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal allocation of invasivespecies surveillance with the maximum expected coverage concept\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{21\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Holden2016,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Government agencies develop invasivespecies management programmes assuming early detection is key to successful management. Some theoretical studies confirm this intuition, while others, which restrict sampling effort to be constant in time, suggest managers are investing too heavily in sampling to detect new local invader populations. We explore whether these optimal constant-effort strategy underplay the importance of early surveillance and determine how much changing sampling effort through time reduces total management cost. Using optimalcontrol theory to calculate time-dependent surveillance policythat minimize the total cost of sampling, eradication, and damage by the invasive, we find that the best strategy often use intense early sampling, followed by reduced sampling effort. Intense early sampling can drastically reduce cost compared with constant-effort strategy if propagule pressure from outside the managed area is low. However, if new infestations arise from frequent independent introductions from an outside source, constant strategy are costeffective. Synthesis and applications. For invasivespecies that are initially present, not frequently reintroduced into the managed area, and for which surveillance is reasonably costeffective, we recommend a simple three-phase management programme that deploys intense early surveillance until the majority of undetected populations have been discovered, followed by medium effort until most of the heavily infested areas have been cleared of the invader and finally low longterm effort to prevent infestations caused by future introductions and spread from populations that escaped surveillance. This programme captures the majority of the economic benefits from varying sampling effort continuously through time.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Matthew H. Holden and Jan P. Nyrop and Stephen P. Ellner\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/1365-2664.12617\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{13652664\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Applied Ecology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Lymantria dispar, bioeconomics, biological invasions, integrated pest management, monitoring, population dynamic, transient dynamic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{712-721\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Blackwell Publishing Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The economic benefit of time-varying surveillance effort for invasivespecies management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{53\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2016\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Rout2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Finding efficient ways to manage the threat of invasivespecies helps make the most of limited resource. Different management actions reduce the impact of invasions differently: preventing invasion eliminates impacts entirely, surveillance can facilitate early detection and eradication, and removing individuals can reduce future impact. Few studies have examined the trade-off between all three facets of invasion management. Using a simple model of island invasion, we find how resource should be allocated to each action to minimise the total cost of management and impact. We use a case study of black rat (Rattus rattus) invasion on Barrow Island, Western Australia. The optimal amount to invest in each management action depends on the effectiveness of each action, and the magnitude of impact caused by different stages of invasion. If the pest is currently absent, it is more costeffective to prevent impacts through prevention or surveillance. If the pest is already widespread, it can sometimes be costeffective to give up rather than attempting eradication. This model of invasion can provide useful decision support by identifying the trade-offs inherent in each candidate management strategy, the thresholds that alter optimal strategy, and the parameters for which we need more information.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Tracy M. Rout and Joslin L. Moore and Hugh P. Possingham and Michael A. McCarthy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.ecolecon.2011.09.009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09218009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Decision theory, Exotic species, Introduced species, Invasion management, Quarantine, Surveillance\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{54-62\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Allocating biosecurity resource between preventing, detecting, and eradicating island invasions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{71\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Rout2014,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Summary: The extensive impact of invasivespecies has motivated a growing field of research combining ecological and economic model to find costeffective management strategy. Ecological system are rarely perfectly observable, meaning decision-makers are usually uncertain about the current extent of an infestation and even whether an invasivespecies is present or absent. We show how to account for this uncertainty when providing decision support for invasivespecies management. We constructed the first partially observable model to analyse the trade-off between all three facets of invasivespecies management: quarantine, surveillance and control. We use a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) to determine how to allocate resource between these actions when the extent of an invasion is uncertain. We use a case study of potential black rat Rattus rattus invasion on Barrow Island, Western Australia. Our model shows it is often better to manage based on an uncertain belief in species presence than to spend money trying to confirm the presence or absence through surveillance. While it was never optimal to invest solely in surveillance to reduce uncertainty, it was often optimal to combine surveillance with quarantine or control. These mixed strategy, where multiple actions are implemented simultaneously, were more often optimal than for similar decision model where the extent of the infestation is known, suggesting an element of risk spreading. Optimal investments in each action were driven by their estimated efficacy, and the difference in the estimated impact of a localized and widespread invasion. For example, in our case study, it was often optimal to invest solely in control due to the low estimated efficacy of quarantine and the relatively small impact of a localized incursion. Synthesis and applications. Our analysis shows that the cost of reducing uncertainty through surveillance is not always accompanied by an improvement in management outcomes. By carefully analysing the benefits of surveillance prior to implementation of invasivespecies management strategy, managers can avoid wasting resource and improve management outcomes.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Tracy M. Rout and Joslin L. Moore and Michael A. Mccarthy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/1365-2664.12234\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1365-2664\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Applied Ecology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Markov decision process, control, cost, detection, effectiveness, eradication, monitoring, quarantine, surveillance, survey\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{804-813\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Prevent, search or destroy? A partially observable model for invasivespecies management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{51\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1365-2664.12234 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/1365-2664.12234 https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1365-2664.12234\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2014\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Moore2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Aim To identify whether eradication or containment is expected to be the most costeffective management goal for an isolated invasive population when knowledge about the current extent is uncertain. Location Global and South Africa. Methods We developed a decision analysis framework to analyse the best management goal for an invasivespecies population (eradication, containment or take no action) when knowledge about the current extent is uncertain. We used value of information analysis to identify when investment in learning about the extent will improve this decision-making and tested the sensitivity of the conclusions to different parameters (e.g. spread rate, maximum extent, and management efficacy and cost). The model was applied to Acacia paradoxa DC, an Australian shrub with an estimated invasive extent of 310ha on Table Mountain, South Africa. Results Under the parameters used, attempting eradication is costeffective for infestations of up to 777ha. However, if the invasion extent is poorly known, then attempting eradication is only costeffective for infestations estimated as 296ha or smaller. The value of learning is greatest (maximum of 8% saving) when infestation extent is poorly known and if it is close to the maximum extent for which attempting eradication is optimal. The optimalmanagement action is most sensitive to the probability that the action succeeds (which depends on the extent), with the discount rate and cost of management also important, but spread rate less so. Over a 20-year time-horizon, attempting to eradicate A. paradoxa from South Africa is predicted to cost on average ZAR 8 million if the extent is known, and if our current estimate is poor, ZAR 33.6 million as opposed to ZAR 32.8 million for attempting containment. Main conclusions Our framework evaluates the costeffective of attempting eradication or containment of an invasive population that takes uncertainty in population extent into account. We show that incorporating uncertainty in the analysis avoids overly optimistic beliefs about the effectiveness of management enabling better management decisions. For A. paradoxa in South Africa, attempting to eradicate is likely to be costeffective, particularly if resource are allocated to better understand and improve management efficacy.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Joslin L. Moore and Michael C. Runge and Bruce L. Webber and John R.U. Wilson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/j.1472-4642.2011.00809.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{13669516\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Diversity and Distributions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Acacia paradoxa, Biological invasions, Decision theory, Early Detection and Rapid Response, Environmental weeds, Invasive alien species management, Table Mountain National Park, Value of information\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1047-1059\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Contain or eradicate? Optimizing the management goal for Australian acacia invasions in the face of uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Regan2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Failing to account for uncertainty in the detection of invasive plants may lead to inefficient management strategy and wasted resource. Smart strategy to manage plant invasions requires consideration of the economic cost and benefits, and plant life-history characteristics as well as imperfect detection. 2.We develop a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) to provide optimalmanagement actions when we are uncertain about the presence of invasive plants. The optimal strategy depends on the probability of being in a particular state. We ask the question, 'When is it preferable to use a less efficient, less costly action to a more efficient, more costly action?' We apply the POMDP to branched broomrape Orobanche ramosa, a parasitic plant species at the centre of a national eradication campaign in South Australia. 3.The optimal strategy depends on the ability to detect the invasivespecies and the location of the infested site. For high detection rates, if the site is a satellite infestation, management should employ the more efficient, more costly action (i.e. soil fumigation) the year the weed is detected followed by monitoring. When the detection probability is low, then it is optimal to employ the less efficient, low cost action (i.e. host denial) in the years the species is not detected. For sites in the centre of the infestation, management should employ the less costly, less efficient action. While the optimal strategy is insensitive to colonization, the likelihood of local eradication diminishes as colonization probability increases, highlighting the importance of limiting colonization if eradication is to be achieved. 4.Synthesis and applications.Providing decision support for management ecological system is a key role of applied research. Formulating this support within a decision theory context provides a framework for good decision-making. The POMDP model is a novel decision support tool for optimal sequential decision making when invasive plants are difficult to detect. The model can determine the best management action to employ based on the location of the infestation and can inform when to switch to alternative management actions that buffer against imperfect detection.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Tracey J. Regan and Iadine Chad\'c3\'a8s and Hugh P. Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1365-2664.2010.01915.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1365-2664\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Applied Ecology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Orobanche ramosa, branched broomrape, decision making, detectability, eradication, invasive plants, partially observable Markov decision process\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{76-85\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimally management under imperfect detection: a method for plant invasions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{48\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1365-2664.2010.01915.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1365-2664.2010.01915.x https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1365-2664.2010.01915.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Marten2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The management of non-native invasivespecies is a complex but crucial task given the potential for economic and environmental damages. For many invasions the development of socially optimalcontrol strategy requires more than is offered by the single-species, single-control model that have dominated this area of research. We develop a general stochastic optimalcontrol framework that accommodates multiple interacting species while accounting for uncertainty in the temporal population dynamic. This extension to the current line of bioeconomic control model allows for the design of optimal integrated pest management strategy that utilize both chemical and biological controls in an environment of uncertainty and irreversibility. We demonstrate the benefits of combining chemical and biological controls in long term management strategy through a case study of the hemlock wooly adelgid (Adelges tsugae) infestation in the eastern United States. In this application we find that the introduction of natural predators is usually sufficient to manage the infestation, though chemical insecticides can play an important role when detection of the infestation is delayed or when the biological control agent does not sufficiently increase mortality of the invasivespecies.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Alex L. Marten and Christopher C. Moore\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.ECOLECON.2011.05.022\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0921-8009\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biological control, Integrated pest management, invasivespecies, Real options\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{2050-2061\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{An options based bioeconomic model for biological and chemical control of invasivespecies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Baker2016,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Abstract invasivespecies are a worldwide issue, both ecologically and economically. A large body of work focuses on various aspects of invasivespecies control, including how to allocate control efforts to eradicate an invasive population as costeffectively as possible. There are a diverse range of invasivespecies management problems, and past mathematical analyses generally focus on isolated examples, making it hard to identify and understand parallels between the different contexts. In this study, we use a single spatiotemporal model to tackle the problem of allocating control effort for invasivespecies when suppressing an island invasivespecies, and for longterm spatial suppression projects. Using feral cat suppression as an illustrative example, we identify the optimal resource allocation for island and mainland suppression projects. Our results demonstrate how using a single model to solve different problems reveals similar characteristics of the solutions in different scenarios. As well as illustrating the insights offered by linking problems through a spatiotemporal model, we also derive novel and practically applicable results for our case studies. For temporal suppression projects on islands, we find that lengthy projects are more costeffective and that rapid control projects are only economically costeffective when population growth rates are high or diminishing returns on control effort are low. When suppressing invasivespecies around conservation assets (e.g., national parks or exclusion fences), we find that the size of buffer zone should depend on the ratio of the species growth and spread rate.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Christopher M. Baker and Michael Bode\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1890/15-0095\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1939-5582\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Felis catus, cat management, invasive alien species, optimalcontrol theory, partial differential equation, resource allocation, spatial control, suppression\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{712-725\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Placing invasivespecies management in a spatiotemporal context\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1890/15-0095 https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1890/15-0095 https://esajournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1890/15-0095\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2016\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{McDermott2015,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Economic activity is implicated in the long-range spread of invasivespecies, resulting in ecological and economic damages. Current policythat are used to prevent such spread include specific and ad valorem taxes. However, these taxes are often created under ecological and economic uncertainty. To address this concern, this paper develops a general equilibrium model capable of evaluating the efficiency of specific and ad valorem taxes under uncertainty. Results show that specific taxes are more efficient at achieving a social optimum under imperfect information and that a combination of taxes is needed for multiple forms of long-range transmission.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Shana McDermott\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1515/BEJEAP-2014-0087\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{19351682\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{B.E. Journal of Economic Analysis and Policy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{emerald ash borer, general equilibrium, invasivespecies policy, long-range spread\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1731-1752\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Walter de Gruyter GmbH\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Regulation of invasivespecies Long-Range Spread: A General Equilibrium Approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{15\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/283083637_Optimal_Regulation_of_Invasive_Species_Long-Range_Spread_A_General_Equilibrium_Approach\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Jones2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The external cost associated with the spread of pasture weeds such as serratedtussock (Nassella trichotoma) is an important economic problem. This problem is complicated in many parts of south-eastern Australia where low rainfall and low soil fertility prevent the economic viability of control of this weed through pasture improvement. A consequence of serratedtussock spread in this region has been calls for increased public intervention in its control. However, because there have been no attempts to measure the external cost of serratedtussock spread, one of the major economic grounds on which this activity might be justified has not been quantified. The purpose of this paper is to provide this information. A stochastic simulation model is developed to determine the size of the external cost associated with the spread of serratedtussock and to evaluate the economic benefits of a range of control scenarios. It is concluded that on low rainfall-low soil fertility country the socially optimalcontrol option for serratedtussock is to retire land from agriculture and re-vegetate it with tree.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{R. E. Jones and D. T. Vere and M. H. Campbell\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0169-5150(99)00043-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0169-5150\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Agricultural Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Australia, External cost, Stochastic simulation, Weed spread\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{91-103\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{No longer published by Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{The external cost of pasture weed spread: an economic assessment of serratedtussock control\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Grimsrud2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper presents a bioeconomic model for two agents, a cattle rancher and a non-rancher, with interdependencies between their individual effort of invasive weed management and profitability. Dynamic simulations allow us to find numerically the optimal effort of weed control over a 5-year time horizon under a variety of beginning infestation levels. In a base-case scenario without governmental cost-share of control cost, we find that efforts to control the weed are not profitable. The base-case scenarios also indicate that grazing contributes to giving the invasive weed a competitive edge. A second series of simulations include incentive payments for weed control which are set at the minimum level required to have a net positive impact on the rancher's profitability. From these simulations, we find that the level of infestation impacts the size of the incentive necessary to get the agent to control the weeds and that the incentive payments impact the level of effort of the rancher. In addition, results reveal that the higher incentive payments for lower levels of weed infestations reduce the total cumulative incentive payments over time. Efficient policydirected towards management of invasive weeds may need to be adjusted for each individual case.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kristine M. Grimsrud and Janie M. Chermak and Jason Hansen and Jennifer A. Thacher and Kate Krause\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.jenvman.2007.05.020\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{03014797\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Dynamic externality, invasivespecies, Yellow starthistle\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{322-335\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{17764820\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A two-agent dynamic model with an invasive weed diffusion externality: An application to Yellow Starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis L.) in New Mexico\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{89\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Naidoo2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Research in systematic conservationplanning has focused heavily on biological considerations, even though a growing number of studies demonstrate that integrating economic cost into the planning process markedly increases the efficiency of resulting plans. At the global scale, the availability of biodiversity maps is increasing, but analogous maps for economic factors that affect biodiversity conservation are rare, and no study has examined global conservationplanning at high resolution using both biodiversity and cost information. Here, we integrate spatial information on crop productivity, livestock density, and prices to produce a global map of the gross economic rents from agricultural lands. We then illustrate the importance of including such opportunity cost in global planning for the conservation of endemic vertebrate species. Plans that consider cost represent endemic species at 10-33% of the opportunity cost of plans that do not, and produce priority sets that diverge from existing schemes. Given scarce resource and the great costeffective of plans that consider both biodiversity and cost, mapping of the economic cost of conservation should receive similar levels of research attention as mapping of biodiversity.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Robin Naidoo and Takuya Iwamura\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.BIOCON.2007.07.025\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, conservationplanning, cost, reserve-design\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{40-49\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Global-scale mapping of economic benefits from agricultural lands: Implications for conservation priorities\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{140\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Moore2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Much effort in systematic conservationplanning has gone into devising measures and algorithms which are efficient at capturing the biological importance of different candidate areas. While cost is at the theoretical heart of complementarity based analyses, little empirical attention has been paid to explicitly incorporating cost into conservationplanning. Here we begin to address this gap by utilising the first estimate of management cost for ecoregion conservation across the entire African continent to examine the consequences of incorporating estimates of management cost into conservationplanning. We apply a recently developed equation linking empirical cost data to economic indicators and the size distribution of reserves to estimate the annual funding required to effectively manage reserve networks covering 10% of each of Africa's 118 ecoregions. Our estimates suggest that US$630 M/ year (0.1% of African Gross National Income) would achieve this goal. However, within this the cost per ecoregion vary widely. Analysis of this variation in cost emphasises that high cost are likely to be correlated with high endemism or threat and that focussing exclusively on cheap areas is unlikely to achieve conservation goals. We also used the cost estimates to examine the potential for improving costeffective in conservationplanning by comparing cumulative representation of vertebrate species and the associated management cost of reserves under different prioritisation schemes where cost was included or excluded. We found that factoring the cost of conservation management into the planning process results in a marked increase in the costeffective of a given prioritisation scheme. This suggests that further improvements in systematic conservationplanning are more likely to come more from measuring and integrating cost and other socio-economic considerations than from focusing exclusively on refinement of biological criteria.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Joslin Moore and Andrew Balmford and Tom Allnutt and Neil Burgess\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/j.biocon.2003.12.013\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00063207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Area selection, Complementarity, cost, Ecoregions, Optimisation, Priority setting, reserve-design, Vertebrates\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{343-350\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Integrating cost into conservationplanning across Africa\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{117\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Joseph2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Conservation funds are grossly inadequate to address the plight of threatened species. Government and conservation organizations faced with the task of conserving threatened species desperately need simple strategy for allocating limited resource. The academic literature dedicated to systematic priority setting usually recommends ranking species on several criteria, including level of endangerment and metrics of species value such as evolutionary distinctiveness, ecological importance, and social significance. These approaches ignore 2 crucial factors: the cost of management and the likelihood that the management will succeed. These oversights will result in misallocation of scarce conservation resource and possibly unnecessary losses. We devised a project prioritization protocol (PPP) to optimize resource allocation among New Zealand's threatened-species projects, where cost, benefits (including species values), and the likelihood of management success were considered simultaneously. We compared the number of species managed and the expected benefits gained with 5 prioritization criteria: PPP with weightings based on species value; PPP with species weighted equally; management cost; species value; and threat status. We found that the rational use of cost and success information substantially increased the number of species managed, and prioritizing management projects according to species value or threat status in isolation was inefficient and resulted in fewer species managed. In addition, we found a clear trade-off between funding management of a greater number of the most cost-efficient and least risky projects and funding fewer projects to manage the species of higher value. Specifically, 11 of 32 species projects could be funded if projects were weighted by species value compared with 16 projects if projects were not weighted. This highlights the value of a transparent decision-making process, which enables a careful consideration of trade-offs. The use of PPP can substantially improve conservation outcomes for threatened species by increasing efficiency and ensuring transparency of management decisions.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Liana N. Joseph and Richard F. Maloney and Hugh P. Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1523-1739.2008.01124.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1523-1739\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{328-338\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{19183202\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Conserv Biol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal allocation of resource among threatened species: a project prioritization protocol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{23\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19183202/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bode2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The optimal allocation of conservation resource between biodiverse conservation regions has generally been calculated using stochastic dynamic-programming, or using myopic heuristics. These solutions are hard to interpret and may not be optimal. To overcome these two limitations, this paper approaches the optimal conservation resource allocation problem using optimalcontrol theory. A solution using Pontryagin's maximum principle provides novel insight into the general properties of efficient conservation resource allocation strategy, and allows more extensive testing of the performance of myopic heuristics. We confirmed that a proposed heuristic (minimize shortterm loss) yields near-optimal results in complex allocation situations, and found that a qualitative allocation feature observed in previous analyses (bang-bang allocation) is a general property of the optimal allocation strategy.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Michael Bode and Kerrie Wilson and Marissa McBride and Hugh Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S11538-008-9343-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1522-9602\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Bulletin of mathematical biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Algorithms, Asia, Conservation of Natural resource / economics, Decision Support Techniques, Ecosystem\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{2039-2054\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{18712571\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Bull Math Biol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal dynamic allocation of conservation funding among priority regions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{70\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18712571/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Arthur2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Decision makers involved in land acquisition and protection often have multiple conservation objectives and are uncertain about the occurrence of species or other features in candidate sites. model informing decisions on selection of sites for reserves need to provide information about cost-efficient trade-offs between objectives and account for incidence uncertainty. We describe a site selection model with two important conservation objectives: maximize expected number of species represented, and maximize the likelihood that a subset of endangeredspecies is represented. The model uses probabilistic species occurrence data in a linear-integer formulation solvable with commercial software. The model is illustrated using probabilistic occurrence data for 403 terrestrial vertebrates in 147 candidate sites in western Oregon, USA. The trade-offs between objectives are explicitly measured by incrementally varying the threshold probability for endangeredspecies representation and recording the change in expected number of species represented. For instance, in the example presented here, we found that under most budget constraints, the probability of representing three endangeredspecies can be increased from 0.00 (i.e., no guaranteed protection) to 0.90 while reducing expected species representation 2%. However, further increasing the probability of endangeredspecies representation from 0.90 to 0.99 results in a much larger reduction in species representation of 14%. Although the numerical results from our analysis are specific to the species and area studied, the methodology is general and applicable elsewhere.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Jeffrey L. Arthur and Jeffrey D. Camm and Robert G. Haight and Claire A. Montgomery and Stephen Polasky\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological Applications\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Oregon, conservation, endangeredspecies, goal trade-offs, optimization, site selection model, species representation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1936-1945\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Weighing conservation objectives: maximum expected coverage versus endangeredspecies protection\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{14\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{White2012,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This study develops a theoretical and empirical framework for optimal conservationplanning using satellite land cover data and economic data from a farm survey. A case study is presented for a region within the South-west Australia Biodiversity Hotspot (Nature 403, 853). This Biodiversity Hotspot is a focus for conservation investment as it combines a relatively high level of biodiversity with severe threat to the biodiversity from agriculture. The conservationplanning model developed determines the optimal set of bush fragments for conservation. This model can also be used to assess the trade-off between the budget and a vegetation species metric. Results from the case study show that, without an effective conservation scheme that at least fences fragments, significant plant biodiversity losses will occur in the North East Wheatbelt Regional Organisation of Councils region of the WA wheatbelt over a 10-year period. A perfect price discriminating auction scheme could reduce the cost of conservation by around 17 per cent relative to a fixed-payment scheme; however, a fixed payment on outcome (measured as change in the species metric) scheme represents a viable second-best alternative, to a conservation auction, where conservation spending is spatially targeted.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Ben White and Rohan Sadler\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1467-8489.2011.00567.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1467-8489\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Western Australian wheatbelt, biodiversity, conservationplanning\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{1-21\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal conservation investment for a biodiversity-rich agricultural landscape\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{56\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1467-8489.2011.00567.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1467-8489.2011.00567.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-8489.2011.00567.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2012\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Carwardine2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Global biodiversity priority setting underpins the strategic allocation of conservation funds. In identifying the first comprehensive set of global priority areas for mammals, Ceballos et al. [Ceballos G, Ehrlich PR, Sober\'c3\'b3n J, Salazar I, Fay JP (2005) Science 309:603 607] found much potential for conflict between conservation and agricultural human activity. This is not surprising because, like other global priority-setting approaches, they set priorities without socioeconomic objectives. Here we present a priority-setting framework that seeks to minimize the conflicts and opportunity cost of meeting conservation goals. We use it to derive a new set of priority areas for investment in mammal conservation based on ( i ) agricultural opportunity cost and biodiversity importance, ( ii ) current levels of international funding, and ( iii ) degree of threat. Our approach achieves the same biodiversity outcomes as Ceballos et al.' s while reducing the opportunity cost and conflicts with agricultural human activity by up to 50%. We uncover shortfalls in the allocation of conservation funds in many threatened priority areas, highlighting a global conservation challenge.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Josie Carwardine and Kerrie A. Wilson and Gerardo Ceballos and Paul R. Ehrlich and Robin Naidoo and Takuya Iwamura and Stefan A. Hajkowicz and Hugh P. Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1073/PNAS.0707157105\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0027-8424\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{32\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, conservationplanning, Investment, Socioeconomics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{11446-11450\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{18678892\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{National Academy of Sciences\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{costeffective priorities for global mammal conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{105\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.pnas.org/content/105/32/11446 https://www.pnas.org/content/105/32/11446.abstract\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Ando1998,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Efforts at species conservation in the United States have tended to be opportunistic and uncoordinated. Recently, however, ecologists and economists have begun to develop more systematic approaches. Here, the problem of efficiently allocating scarce conservation resource in the selection of sites for biological reserves is addressed. With the use of county-level data on land prices and the incidence of endangeredspecies, it is shown that accounting for heterogeneity in land prices results in a substantial increase in efficiency in terms of either the cost of achieving a fixed coverage of species or the coverage attained from a fixed budget.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Amy Ando and Jeffrey Camm and Stephen Polasky and Andrew Solow\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1126/SCIENCE.279.5359.2126\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00368075\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{5359\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{2126-2128\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{American Association for the Advancement of Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Species Distributions, Land Values, and Efficient Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{279\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.science.org/doi/abs/10.1126/science.279.5359.2126\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1998\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Murdoch2007,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Global conservation needs far exceed the available resource, so scarce resource must be used costeffectively. Although many conservation priory-setting frameworks used by NGO's or public agencies explicitly claim to emphasize efficiency or wise investment, none actually incorporates cost in a formal return-on-investment (ROI) framework. We illustrate here how an ROI framework can be applied to real world resource allocation decisions faced by conservation organizations. We present two examples: (1) allocating resource to purchase land in 21 ecoregions that make up the Temperate Forest Habitat in the US; (2) allocating resource among a variety of conservation actions (not just land purchase) in Mediterranean habitats, with rates of habitat loss factored into the analysis. An important feature of both case studies is that cost vary by orders of magnitude, depending on where or how one is doing conservation. Second, because cost and biodiversity are not well correlated, enormous savings are possible by applying an ROI analysis. Moreover, recommended priorities after including cost in the calculations often deviate substantially from priorities based solely on biodiversity measures. Hence we argue that a major effort of conservationist biologists should be to include and record the cost of conservation actions. If serious attention is not given to returns on investment, it implies that "money is no object.".\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{William Murdoch and Stephen Polasky and Kerrie A. Wilson and Hugh P. Possingham and Peter Kareiva and Rebecca Shaw\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.BIOCON.2007.07.011\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3-4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Benefit, conservationplanning, Cost,Maximizing gain, Minimizing loss, Species-area curve, Species-investment curve\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{375-388\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Maximizing return on investment in conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{139\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2007\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Wilson2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Optimal allocation of conservation resource between regions can be problematic because stochastic dynamic-programming breaks down for larger problems  but the identification of two heuristics that closely approximate the optimal solution and can be applied at any spatial scale is reported. One of the most pressing issues facing the global conservation community is how to distribute limited resource between regions identified as priorities for biodiversity conservation1,2,3. Approaches such as biodiversity hotspots4, endemic bird areas5 and ecoregions6 are used by international organizations to prioritize conservation efforts globally7. Although identifying priority regions is an important first step in solving this problem, it does not indicate how limited resource should be allocated between regions. Here we formulate how to allocate optimally conservation resource between regions identified as priorities for conservation \'94the  \'98conservation resource allocation problem  . Stochastic dynamic-programming is used to find the optimal schedule of resource allocation for small problems but is intractable for large problems owing to the curse of dimensionality 8. We identify two easy-to-use and easy-to-interpret heuristics that closely approximate the optimal solution. We also show the importance of both correctly formulating the problem and using information on how investment returns change through time. Our conservation resource allocation approach can be applied at any spatial scale. We demonstrate the approach with an example of optimal resource allocation among five priority regions in Wallacea and Sundaland, the transition zone between Asia and Australasia.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Kerrie A. Wilson and Marissa F. McBride and Michael Bode and Hugh P. Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1038/nature04366\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1476-4687\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{7082\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Nature\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{337-340\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{16541073\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Nature Publishing Group\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Prioritizing global conservation efforts\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{440\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.nature.com/articles/nature04366\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Meir2004,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Loss of biodiversity is one of the world's overriding environmental challenges. Reducing those losses by creating reserve networks is a cornerstone of global conservation and resource management. Historically, assembly of reserve networks has been ad hoc, but recently the focus has shifted to identifying optimal reserve networks. We show that while comprehensive reserve network design is best when the entire network can be implemented immediately, when conservation investments must be staged over years, such solutions actually may be sub-optimal in the context of biodiversity loss and uncertainty. Simple decision rules, such as protecting the available site with the highest irreplaceability or with the highest species richness, may be more effective when implementation occurs over many years.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Eli Meir and Sandy Andelman and Hugh P. Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1461-0248.2004.00624.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1461-0248\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecology Letters\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, conservation, optimisation, reserve-design, uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{615-622\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Does conservationplanning matter in a dynamic and uncertain world?\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2004.00624.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2004.00624.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2004.00624.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2004\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Strange2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{In this paper we present a novel expansion of the problem of optimal reserve site selection over time. We explore a case where areas with valuable biodiversity cannot all be protected immediately due to budget restrictions and there is a probability of species extinction on reserved as well as non-reserved sites. Add to this the risk of landuse conversion facing all non-reserved areas. We furthermore introduce a new type of control by making the planning authorities have the option to sell reserved land on which biodiversity value has decreased. We formulate and solve this problem through stochastic dynamic integerprogramming. The current study shows that, due to the dynamic and stochastic nature of biodiversity evolution, the inclusion of a swapping option may increase overall efficiency. Finally, we test a number of decision criteria (heuristics) to investigate alternatives to the cumbersome task of determining the true optimum.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Niels Strange and Bo Jellesmark Thorsen and Jesper Bladt\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.BIOCON.2006.02.002\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0006-3207\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Biological Conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, dynamic-programming, Reserve network, Uncertainty\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{7\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{33-41\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal reserve selection in a dynamic world\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{131\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Balmford2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    author = \{Andrew Balmford and Kevin J. Gaston and Ana S.L., Rodrigues and Alexander James\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Integrating cost of Conservation into International Priority Setting\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{14\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.jstor.org/stable/2641417\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Bode2008,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{
\f7\fs30 \cf8 \cb5 Priorities for conservation investment at a global scale that are based on a single taxon have been criticized because geographic richness patterns vary taxonomically. However, these concerns focused only on biodiversity patterns and did not consider the importance of socioeconomic factors, which must also be included if conservation funding is to be allocated efficiently. In this article, we create efficient global funding schedules that use information about conservation cost, predicted habitat loss rates, and the endemicity of seven different taxonomic groups. We discover that these funding allocation schedules are less sensitive to variation in taxon assessed than to variation in cost and threat. Two-thirds of funding is allocated to the same regions regardless of the taxon, compared with only one-fifth if threat and cost are not included in allocation decisions. Hence, if socioeconomic factors are considered, we can be more confident about global-scale decisions guided by single taxonomic groups.
\f1\fs24 \cf4 \cb1 \},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Michael Bode and Kerrie A Wilson and Thomas M Brooks and Will R Turner and Russell A Mittermeier and Marissa F McBride and Emma C Underwood and Hugh P Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{costeffective global conservation spending is robust to taxonomic group\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{105\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{www.pnas.org/cgi/content/full/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2008\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Evans2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Aim Our study aimed to determine priority areas for conservation investment with explicit consideration of the impacts of multiple threatening processes, and the dependencies that exist between actions required to abate these threats. Location Australia. Methods We analysed the return on investment for two different management actions aimed at reducing the impact of invasivespecies on the native fauna and flora of Australia. We focussed on the management of the European red fox (Vulpes vulpes) and European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) at two spatial scales: across 72 biogeographic regions of Australia and within one high-priority biogeographic region. We considered each action independently and also explicitly accounted for the option of an integrated fox and rabbit management action. We accounted for the spatial distributions of the threatened species within our analysis and determined how this refined spatial information influenced both the priority areas and the timing of this investment. Results Integrated fox and rabbit management was identified as a higher priority than singular threat abatement in most bioregions, whereas rabbit control alone was the most frequent priority if dependencies between actions were ignored. At the regional scale, funding was entirely directed to integrated action when seven or more species within the priority region were impacted by more than one threat. The total allocation of funding and timing of initial investment remained relatively insensitive to differences in the spatial overlap of species distributions. Main conclusions Our findings indicate that prioritizing conservation actions without explicit consideration of the impacts of multiple threats can reduce the costeffective of investments. The benefits expected from investment in abating one threat alone may be overestimated where other processes continue to threaten species persistence. We conclude that future attention should be directed to refining our understanding of the cost-efficiencies delivered through integrated actions and institutional mechanisms to achieve their delivery.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Megan C. Evans and Hugh P. Possingham and Kerrie A. Wilson\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/j.1472-4642.2011.00747.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{13669516\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Diversity and Distributions\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Australia, Conservation resource allocation, Return on investment, Species-area relationship, Threatened species\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{437-450\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{What to do in the face of multiple threats? Incorporating dependencies within a return on investment framework for conservation\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Adams2011,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Two perennial problems in the management of unevenaged forest are considered: (i) determination of the optimal sustainable distribution of tree by diameter class, i.e. stand structure, for a given initial stocking level, and (ii) the optimal cutting schedule for the conversion of an irregular stand to a target structure. It is shown, using examples for northern hardwood stands in Wisconsin, that both problems can be solved via mathematical programming techniques. The programming approaches utilize a set of nonlinear equation model for stand table projections which consider the interdependence of size classes within the stand. To illustrate procedures, optimal stand structures are found for a case where initial stand basal area is constrained to specified levels and the objective is to maximize value growth over the cutting cycle. A conversion cutting schedule is then determined for a case in which the objective is maximization of present worth. It is emphasized that both the optimal distribution and conversion problems can be generalized to consider a broad range of objective functions, lengths of cutting cycle, and constraints on the growing stock.\cf3 \
\cf4 \},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Darius M. Adams and Alan R. Ek\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1139/X74-041\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0045-5067\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Canadian Journal of Forest Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{9\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{274-287\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{ NRC Research Press Ottawa, Canada \},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimizing the Management of unevenaged Forest Stands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://cdnsciencepub.com/doi/abs/10.1139/x74-041\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2011\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Haight1985,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The determination of an optimal sequence of diameter distributions and selection harvest for unevenaged stand management is formulated as a discrete-time optimalcontrol problem with bounded control variables and freeterminal point. An efficient programming technique utilizing gradients provides solutions that are stable and interpretable on the basis of economic principles. Methods and results are demonstrated using a whole-stand/diameter-class simulator developed for northern hardwoods stands in Wisconsin. Examples in which the objective is present net worth maximization over a 150-year planning horizon with a 5-year cutting cycle suggest two types of optimal equilibrium stand structures: a downward-sloping diameter distribution if large value premiums are assigned to the largest diameter classes and a truncated diameter distribution if premiums for larger tree are gradual or absent. Transition strategy vary in length and harvest pattern depending on the stumpage value function used. It is emphasized that equilibrium management regimes developed with static analysis are not optimal when used as starting conditions in dynamic formulations\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Robert G. Haight and J. Douglas Brodie and Darius M. Adams\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/forestCIENCE/31.2.451\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0015-749X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Forest Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{451-462\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford Academic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimizing the Sequence of Diameter Distributions and Selection harvest for unevenaged Stand Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{31\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://academic.oup.com/forestcience/article/31/2/451/4657027\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1985\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Westphal2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Because socioeconomic factors drive conservationplanning, we believe that to be relevant to on-the-ground projects, conservation science should be focused more on formulating problems explicitly and showing how the broad variety of decision-making tools can be used to deliver solutions. Conservation biology cannot operate outside the reality of financial limitations.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Michael I. Westphal and Hugh P. Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1046/J.1523-1739.2003.01594.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{08888892\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{327-329\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Applying a decision-theory framework to landscape planning for biodiversity: Follow-up to Watson et al.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/37617100_Applying_a_Decision-Theory_Framework_to_Landscape_Planning_for_Biodiversity_Follow-Up_to_Watson_et_al\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Davis2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Systematic planning for biodiversity conservation is being conducted at scales ranging from global to national to regional. The prevailing planning paradigm is to identify the minimum land allocations needed to reach specified conservation targets or maximize the amount of conservation accomplished under an area or budget constraint. We propose a more general formulation for setting conservation priorities that involves goal setting, assessing the current conservation system, developing a scenario of future biodiversity given the current conservation system, and allocating available conservation funds to alter that scenario so as to maximize future biodiversity. Under this new formulation for setting conservation priorities, the value of a site depends on resource quality, threats to resource quality, and cost. This planning approach is designed to support collaborative processes and negotiation among competing interest groups. We demonstrate these ideas with a case study of the Sierra Nevada bioregion of California.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Frank W. Davis and Christopher Costello and David Stoms\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.5751/ES-01591-110133\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{17083087\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecology and Society\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, California, Conservation, costeffective, Irreplaceability, Planning, Retention, Scenario, Sierra Nevada\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{The Resilience Alliance\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Efficient Conservation in a Utility-Maximization Framework\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{11\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Crepin2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Recent research in natural sciences shows that the dynamic in boreal forest are much more complex than what many model traditionally used in forestry economics reflect. This essay analyzes some challenges of accounting for such complexity. It shows that the optimal harvest strategy for forest owners is history dependent and for some states of the forest, more than one strategy may be optimal. This paper confirms earlier literature on shallow lakes and coral reefs and shows that this kind of phenomena seem much more common than previously thought. They are valid for a wide range of ecosystem that cover large surfaces and they do not depend on the choice of some specific function to model the non-linearity. There are also indications that theses results could be obtained even for resource with concave growth if at least one species with non-linear growth affects their dynamic.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Anne Sophie Cr\'e9pin\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1023/B:EARE.0000007352.02799.0E\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{09246460\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\}, \cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Forestry, Multiple steady states, Non-linear, Skiba points\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{625-646\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Multiple Species Boreal forest - What Faustmann Missed\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{26\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://www.researchgate.net/publication/5146655_Multiple_Species_Boreal_forest_-_What_Faustmann_Missed\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Brunette2017,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Based upon the historical data \'94obtained from the French National Forest Inventory \'94on the tree species   productivities, assimilated to be a measure of return on investment, as well as on their variances as sources of risk, we apply the portfolio selection theory in order to optimize the species distributions in France. We thus determine the optimal return-risk combinations of tree species and map them per administrative department. We also estimate the resistance of optimal portfolios using the species   probabilities of presence. Our results show that greater weights in the optimal portfolios match with higher probabilities of presence, implying that foresters have incentives to invest in the most resilient species.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Marielle Brunette and Arnaud Dragicevic and Jonathan Lenglet and Alexandra Niedzwiedz and Vincent Badeau and Jean Luc Dupouey\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10818-017-9247-X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1573-6989\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Bioeconomics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Behavioral Sciences, Economic Theory/ Quantitative Economics/ Mathematical Methods, Environmental Economics, Law and Economics, Political Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{223-245\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Biotechnical portfolio management of mixed-species forest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{19\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10818-017-9247-x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2017\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Wikstrom2000,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The unevenaged management problem is to determine the management regime for an existing stand over an infinite time horizon, without ever clearcutting it. A new solution method to solve this problem is presented and demonstrated on simulated Norway spruce stands with different initial stand structures. Diameter distributions were used as a convenient way to describe these structures. The method, which puts much effort into determining the timing of harvest activities, is based on Tabu search and greedy heuristics. The growth dynamic were described with a single tree simulator. Different problem approaches for this problem were adopted to maximize the net present value (NPV) of harvested tree, with or without steadystate constraints. With no such constraints, a finite time horizon approximates the general management problem, while the steadystate constraints involved fixed and equilibrium endpoints. The fixed endpoint was a reverse J-shaped diameter distribution, and its purpose was to mimic the structure of a virgin stand. Analysis of economic efficiency, productivity, and managerial implications were made. With the method used and for the endpoint problems, the conversion strategy, conversion length, and steadystate diameter distribution were determined simultaneously. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov measure was used to describe the similarity between diameter distributions and was put directly into the constraints. The infinite approximation is suggested as the best problem formulation as it, in contrast to a steadystate approach, does not assume that a resource system reaches a climax, eliminates the need to define a diameter class width, and involves no fixed cutting cycles. The even-aged management problem, which is to determine the best period for clearcutting and the best thinning regime that precedes the clearcut, while recognizing the soil expectation value, was analyzed for comparison. The method is flexible, independent of the kind of growth simulator used, and can, for example, be directly applied to a diameter class model.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Peder Wikstr\'f6m\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1093/forestCIENCE/46.3.452\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0015-749X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Forest Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Biodiversity, Heuristic, Optimization, Picea abies, Steady state, Tabu search\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{452-463\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Oxford Academic\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A Solution Method for unevenaged Management Applied to Norway Spruce\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{46\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://academic.oup.com/forestcience/article/46/3/452/4617168\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2000\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Haight1990,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Optimal any-aged management problems for mixed-species stands have been solved for the first time. Problem formulation calls for periodic planting and harvest controls to be applied without constraints on the stand age or size structure over time; classical definitions of both even- and unevenaged management are, thus, subsets of this general any-aged management definition. The solution technique is a derivative-free, coordinate-search process called the method of Hooke and Jeeves. The optimizer incorporates without modification the Stand Prognosis Model, a single-tree simulator that is used extensively in the western United States. This paper focuses on sensitivity analysis and performance of the optimizer on problems with both short and long time horizons and with different definitions of the harvest controls. Superior harvest regimes are found by defining harvest controls with relatively wide diameter-class boundaries and with broad species groups. In all cases examined, there is variability in present value and harvest pattern associated with the choice of the starting point for the optimizer. The cause of these multiple optima is a nonconvex and discontinuous response surface produced by the single-tree simulator. This points out the need to examine the results from several random starts before making conclusions about optimal timber harvest.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{R. G. Haight and R. A. Monserud\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1139/X90-003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0045-5067\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Canadian Journal of Forest Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{15-25\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{ NRC Research Press Ottawa, Canada \},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimizing any-aged management of mixed-species stands. I. Performance of a coordinate-search process\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{20\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://cdnsciencepub.com/doi/abs/10.1139/x90-003\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1990\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Tahvonen2010,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An optimization model is specified to analyze forest management without any restrictions on the forest management system. The data on forest growth comes from unique field experiments and is used to estimate a nonlinear transition matrix or size-structured model for Norway spruce. The objective function includes detailed harvest cost specifications and the optimization problem is solved in its most general dynamic form. In optimal unevenaged management, stand density is shown to be dominated by limitations in natural regeneration. If the goal is volume maximization, even-aged management with artificial regeneration (and thinnings from above) is superior to unevenaged management. After including regeneration and harvest cost, the interest rate, and the price differential between saw timber and pulpwood, unevenaged management becomes superior to even-aged management. However, in the short term the superiority is conditional on the initial stand state.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Olli Tahvonen and Timo Pukkala and Olavi Laiho and Erkki L\'c3\'a4hde and Sami Niinim\'c3\'a4ki\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/J.FORECO.2010.04.006\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0378-1127\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Forest Ecology and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Forest management, Optimal harvest, Optimal rotation, Transition matrix model, unevenaged forestry\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{106-115\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{optimalmanagement of unevenaged Norway spruce stands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{260\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2010\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Tahvonen2009,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Existing optimal rotation model include even-aged management exogenously into the model structure. As an economic model, this Faustmann framework is restrictive, and a more general model should not include any such preconditions. Even-aged management should follow endogenously as an optimal solution if it proves out to be superior to other systems, such as unevenaged management. Without such a general model, the economically optimal choice between even-aged and unevenaged forestry remains somewhat arbitrary. This study specifies such a model and shows how even-aged management follows endogenously and reveals what factors work in favor of each management alternative. Numerical analysis shows that even- and unevenaged system may represent locally optimal solutions and may yield equal economic outcomes. Instead of the usual comparative statics results of the Faustmann model, changes in the rate of discount, timber price, or planting cost may imply that the optimal solution shifts from even- to unevenaged management.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Olli Tahvonen\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/J.1939-7445.2008.00037.X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1939-7445\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Natural Resource Modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Uneven, age, aged management, even, optimal harvest, optimal rotation, size, structured model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{289-321\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{John Wiley & Sons, Ltd\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimal Choice Between Even and unevenaged Forestry\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{22\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1939-7445.2008.00037.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1939-7445.2008.00037.x https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1939-7445.2008.00037.x\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2009\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Liang2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A density-dependent matrix model was developed for Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii (Mirb.) Franco)-western hemlock (Tsuga heterophylla (Raf.) Sarg.) forest stands in the Pacific Northwest of the United States. The model predicted the number and volume of tree for 4 species groups and 19 diameter classes. The parameters were based on species-dependent equations linking individual tree growth, mortality, and stand recruitment to tree and stand characteristics, including stand diversity in terms of tree species and size. The equations were estimated with individual tree and stand data from 2706 permanent plots in western Washington and Oregon, largely from private and state lands, measured twice at an average interval of 10 years. Other things being equal, diameter growth increased slightly with species diversity and decreased with size diversity. Recruitment increased with species diversity and decreased with size diversity. Mortality was independent of species diversity and tended to increase with size diversity. There was practically no relationship between individual tree volume and species or size diversity. The number of tree predicted by the model over the interval between successive inventories was generally unbiased. Longterm predictions with different initial conditions were consistent with standard yield tables and compared favorably with those of the Forest Vegetation Simulator. The model also implied that, independently of its initial condition, an undisturbed stand would eventually reach a steady state dominated by western hemlock more than 1 m in diameter, with few tree of other species and size. \},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Jingjing Liang and Joseph Buonglorno and Robert A. Monserud\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1139/X05-137\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Canadian Journal of Forest Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Growth and yield of all-aged Douglas-fir -- western hemlock forest stands: a matrix model with stand diversity effects.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{35\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{http://cjfr.nrc.ca\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Lin1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{A density-dependent matrix model of stand growth is presented. The model was calibrated with re-measured plots in the northern hardwood forest in Wisconsin. tree were divided into shade-tolerant, intermediate, and shade-intolerant species in twelve diameter classes. Model predictions were tested against post-sample observations for shortterm (15-year) and longterm (steadystate) accuracy. This growth model was then applied to study stand growth dynamic with and without management. Starting with the current average stand state, the predicted stand basal area of an unmanaged stand rose steadily to a maximum, dropped gradually, and finally reached a steady state. The time paths of basal area and tree size diversity were highly and positively correlated. Instead, tree species diversity decreased when size diversity and basal area increased, and vice-versa. When harvest was introduced, it was found that more intensive harvest increased the diversity of tree species, while decreasing the diversity of tree size. A 20-year cutting cycle could produce higher economic returns than a 10-year cutting cycle, with similar size and species diversity. harvest most of the saw timbers every 20 years could be a good compromise between economics and tree diversity, at the stand level.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Ching Rong Lin and Joseph Buongiorno and Mike Vasievich\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Ecological diversity, Economics, Forest ecosystems, Growth, population, Management strategy\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{193-211\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A multi-species, density-dependent matrix growth model to predict tree diversity and income in northern hardwood stands\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{91\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hao2005,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{An optimization model was developed to determine the optimal harvest strategy needed for unevenaged mixed-species stands in the Changbai Mountain region of northeast of China. The model takes into account four variables including residual basal area (RBA), the diameter of the largest tree, harvest cycle and a constant representing the ratio of the number of tree in a given diameter class to those in the next larger diameter class ( \'98q  ). According to model simulations, under the objective of maximizing net revenue, the optimal harvest strategy is defined when the residual basal area equals to 19 m2 ha\'e2\'88\'921, the diameter of the largest tree equals to 44 cm, q 1.3 and the harvest cycle equals to 20 years. If the objective is to maximize the total volume yield, the optimal harvest strategy is defined when RBA equals to 13 m2 ha\'e2\'88\'921, the diameter of the largest tree equals to 36 cm and the constant  \'98q   equals to 1.9 and the harvest cycle equals to 15 years.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Qingyu Hao and Fanrui Meng and Yuping Zhou and Jingxin Wang\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S11056-005-5656-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1573-5095\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{New forest\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Forestry, Growth and yield, Harvest strategy, Matrix model, Optimization model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{207-219\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Determining the optimal selective harvest strategy for mixed-species stands with a transition matrix growth model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{29\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11056-005-5656-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2005\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Volin1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The aim of this study was to predict the longterm effects of alternative management regimes for unevenaged mixed-species forest in the Italian Dolomites, among the most beautiful in the Alps range. For this purpose, a non-linear matrix model of stand growth was estimated from re- measured stands, and the predictions compared with actual data. Then, long- term simulations were used to determine the effects of (i) extracting some mortality only; (ii) applying Susmel's (1980) management guides; (iii) cutting only tree above a diameter limit, (iv) saving the beech, and (v) continuing the current harvest rate. The ecological criteria to evaluate the different management regimes were basal area and stand composition by tree species and size. The economic criterion was the net present value of the harvest. The results suggest that, for a 10-year cutting cycle, applying Susmel's guide or a diameter-limit cut of 70 cm for conifers and 50 for beech would keep diversity of species and size equal to that of an unmanaged stand, though lowering basal area. Of the two, Susmel's guide would give 25% higher income. However, income could be doubled by lowering the diameter-limit cut to 60 cm for conifers and 45 for beech. This would give the same basal area and species diversity, but decrease size diversity by about 6%. The policy that did not allow to cut beech resulted in stands that had less beech than those obtained by Susmel's guide or diameter-limit cuts. Perpetuating the current cutting rate gave the highest tree size diversity, but lower species diversity and the lowest income. Of cutting cycles of 5, 10. and 15 years, the longest gave, other things being equal, the highest basal area and size diversity, slightly lower species diversity, but substantially lower income.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Valeria C. Volin and Joseph Buongiorno\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0378-1127(96)03828-5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0378-1127\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Forest Ecology and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Diversity, Economics, Growth, Matrix, Policy, unevenaged\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{10\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{107-125\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Effects of alternative management regimes on forest stand structure, species composition, and income: a model for the Italian Dolomites\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{87\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Virgilietti1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper reports on the possibility and difficulties in building growth model from past Forest Administration records on cut and growth in the Italian Alps. As a case study, a matrix model was calibrated for unevenaged forest in the Valsugana valley of the Trentino province. The model gave reliable predictions over 30 years, and plausible longterm forest dynamic, including steadystates that are similar to virgin forest. The results support the view that the current forest are deeply altered as to composition, relative to what would obtain from natural growth. They also support the concept of long cyclic changes in natural stands, gradually approaching a climax state. Shortcomings of the data are that they do not come from an experimental design, they are not always accurate, and they must be supplemented with other information, especially concerning mortality. Still, these cheap and available data can lead to workable model adapted to local conditions, with many management applications.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Paola Virgilietti and Joseph Buongiorno\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.14214/SF.A8508\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{00375330\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Silva Fennica\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Forest dynamic, Growth model, Italian Alps, Matrix model\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{27-42\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Finnish Society of Forest Science\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Modeling forest growth with management data: A matrix approach for the Italian Alps\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{31\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hao2006,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The optimum model of harvest yield and net profits of large diameter tree for broadleaved forest were developed, of which include matrix growth sub-model, harvest cost and wood price sub-model, based on the data from Hongshi Forestry Bureau, in Changbai Mountain region, Jilin Province, China. The data were measured in 232 permanent sample plots. With the data of permanent sample plots, the parameters of transition probability and ingrowth model were estimated, and some model were compared and partly modified. During the simulation of stand structure, four factors such as largest diameter residual tree (L\cf3 \
\cf4                         DT), the ratio of the number of tree in a given diameter class to those in the next larger diameter class (q), residual basal area (R\cf3 \
\cf4                         BA) and selective cutting cycle (C) were considered. The simulation results showed that the optimum stand structure parameters for large diameter tree are as follows: q is 1.2, L\cf3 \
\cf4                         DT is 46cm, R\cf3 \
\cf4                         BA is larger than 26 m2 and selective cutting cycle time (C) is between 10 and 20 years.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Qing-yu Hao and Yu-ping Zhou and Li-hai Wang and Jin-zhuo Wu\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S11676-006-0032-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1993-0607\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Forestry Research\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Forestry\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{6\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{135-140\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimization model of stand structure and selective cutting cycle for large diameter tree of broadleaved forest in Changbai Mountain\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{17\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11676-006-0032-2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2006\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Boscolo1997,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Natural tropical forest can provide income, serve as carbon sinks, and be reservoirs of biological diversity. Management for these diverse goals can be guided by optimisation model that seek the best cutting regime, given different constraints and objective functions. The results for a lowland tropical rainforest in peninsular Malaysia show that to maximise a sustainable income one would cut all commercial tree of 30 cm and above every 20 years. All non-commercial tree would remain, and thus contribute to diversity and carbon storage. The best policy to maximise carbon storage was not to cut at all. This also maximised diversity, by leading to a forest in its climax state. However, this policy had a very high opportunity cost. Compromise policywere obtained, for example by maximising carbon storage, or diversity, while getting a competitive rate of return on the capital in tree. Findings suggest that increasing carbon storage and tree diversity can be attained only at significant cost in terms of foregone income. For example, increasing carbon storage beyond the income maximising amount would cost $47/ton\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{M. Boscolo and J. Buongiorno\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Commonwealth Forestry Review\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{management a Tropical Rainforest For Timber, Carbon Storage and Tree Diversity\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1997\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Tulloch2015,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Conservation outcomes are uncertain. Agencies making decisions about what threat mitigation actions to take to save which species frequently face the dilemma of whether to invest in actions with high probability of success and guaranteed benefits or to choose projects with a greater risk of failure that might provide higher benefits if they succeed. The answer to this dilemma lies in the decision maker's aversion to risk-their unwillingness to accept uncertain outcomes. Little guidance exists on how risk preferences affect conservation investment priorities. Using a prioritization approach based on costeffective, we compared 2 approaches: a conservative probability threshold approach that excludes investment in projects with a risk of management failure greater than a fixed level, and a variance-discounting heuristic used in economics that explicitly accounts for risk tolerance and the probabilities of management success and failure. We applied both approaches to prioritizing projects for 700 of New Zealand's threatened species across 8303 management actions. Both decision makers' risk tolerance and our choice of approach to dealing with risk preferences drove the prioritization solution (i.e., the species selected for management). Use of a probability threshold minimized uncertainty, but more expensive projects were selected than with variance discounting, which maximized expected benefits by selecting the management of species with higher extinction risk and higher conservation value. Explicitly incorporating risk preferences within the decision making process reduced the number of species expected to be safe from extinction because lower risk tolerance resulted in more species being excluded from management, but the approach allowed decision makers to choose a level of acceptable risk that fit with their ability to accommodate failure. We argue for transparency in risk tolerance and recommend that decision makers accept risk in an adaptive management framework to maximize benefits and avoid potential extinctions due to inefficient allocation of limited resource.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Ayesha I.T. Tulloch and Richard F. Maloney and Liana N. Joseph and Joseph R. Bennett and Martina M.I. Di Fonzo and William J.M. Probert and Shaun M. O'Connor and Jodie P. Densem and Hugh P. Possingham\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1111/COBI.12386\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{1523-1739\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Conservation Biology\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Animals, Conservation of Natural resource / legislation & jurisprudence, Conservation of Natural resource / methods, costbenefit Analysis, Decision Making, Invertebrates, Risk, Uncertainty, Vertebrates\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{4\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{513-524\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pmid = \{25327837\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Conserv Biol\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Effect of risk aversion on prioritizing conservation projects\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{29\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25327837/\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2015\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Lopes2020,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Several indigenous tribes around the world derive spiritual value from revering fauna and flora species. Species conservation is not a prime objective of such traditions but can be an unintended consequence. Conventional species conservation practices ignore this spiritual value and tribes are often evicted from protected areas. We use the existence value framework to develop a coupled ecological-economic model of the use and non-use, existence value of wildlife for a tribe that derives spiritual value from a wildlife population. We calibrate the model for the Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve in India with the resident Soligas tribe who consider tigers as sacred and back out an existence value of tigers in this reserve from a tribe manager  s perspective. The model ascertains tiger population dynamic under several management scenarios. steadystate convergence is observed under secure propertyrights for the Soligas. Scenarios in which they are evicted from the BRT reserve and lose their propertyrights yields localized tiger extinction. Finally, we generate a marginal existence value function and discuss the potential for using existence value estimates in guiding conservation policy.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Adrian A. Lopes and Shady S. Atallah\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1007/S10640-020-00416-1/TABLES/2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{15731502\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Environmental and Resource Economics\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Bioeconomic model, Conservation, Existence value, Public goods, Tiger\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{5\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{69-90\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Springer\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Worshipping the Tiger: Modeling Non-use Existence value of Wildlife Spiritual Services\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{76\},\cf3 \
\cf4    url = \{https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10640-020-00416-1\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2020\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{MestertonGibbons1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper describes a technique to find the optimal harvest policy for a Lotka-Volterra ecosystem of two interdependent populations when harvest rate is proportional to harvest effort and either a single stock is selectively harvested or both stocks are harvested together. A problem that yields to this technique is Chaudhuri's (Ecol. Model., 41: 17-25, 1986) previously unsolved problem of harvest two competing species. The solution reveals that even if two species would coexist in the absence of harvest, one species may be driven to extinction by the optimal policy if it is sufficiently more catchable than the other. It is suggested that the technique may be widely applicable in ecological modeling, and other recent applications are described.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Michael Mesterton-Gibbons\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0304-3800(95)00176-X\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Control strategy, Fisheries, harvest strategy, Wildlife\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{235-244\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{A technique for finding optimal two-species harvest policies\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{92\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Hearne1996,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{The Natal Parks Board annually sells hunting licences for tile Controlled Hunting Area (CHA) adjacent to the Mkuzi Game Reserve. A management objective is to maximise the revenue obtained from these hunting activities while ensuring that the population of each species is kept above some minimum level. This management problem is formulated as a linear programming problem and solved for the fourteen different species in the CHA. The LP problem is formulated in such a way as to utilise the same data that is the basis for present management decision-making. The objective function takes into account that animals are hunted for both meat and trophies. Only a fraction of each population is suitable for trophy hunting and higher prices are usual for such animals. The model considers fourteen species divided according to their food preferences into four groups. There is a carrying capacity constraint which limits the weighted sum of the populations in each of these groups. Further constraints relate to the specific growth rates of each species. The optimal equilibrium population levels were calculated to serve as goals or targets. However, droughts and other natural phenomena which affect population numbers are frequently encountered at Mkuze. A number of experiments were therefore performed where the populations were set to reduced levels. The optimalcontrol problem which steers the populations towards the target levels in an optimal way was formulated. Some illustrative solutions are presented.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{John Hearne and Roland Lamberson and Peter Goodman\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/0304-3800(95)00203-0\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0304-3800\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2-3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Ecological modeling\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Hunting, Management strategy, Multispecies ecosystems\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{12\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{225-233\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Elsevier\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Optimising the offtake of large herbivores from a multi-species community\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{92\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{1996\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \ul @working_paper\ulnone \{\ul Gerling2021\ulnone ,\
   abstract = \{In agricultural landscapes, climate change has profound impacts on species that society aims to conserve. In response to climate change, species may adapt spatially (with range shifts) and temporally (with \ul phenological\ulnone  adaptations), which may make formerly effective conservation sites and measures less effective. As climate change also has an impact on yields, opportunity cost of landuse-based conservation measures may also change spatially and with respect to the timing of conservation measures. Due to these \ul spatio\ulnone -temporal modifications of the cost of conservation measures and their impacts on species, formerly costeffective conservation sites and measures may no longer be so in a changing climate. We combine ecological-economic \ul modeling\ulnone  with climate science to investigate climate change-induced modifications of the timing and spatial allocation of costeffective conservation measures. We apply our model to the case study of conserving the large marsh grasshopper on agricultural grasslands in the German federal state of \ul Schleswig\ulnone -Holstein. Comparing the periods 2020-2039 and 2060-2079, our model indeed indicates that climate change induces modifications in the costeffective spatial allocation of conservation measures and that measures which are adapted to \ul phenological\ulnone  changes remain costeffective under climate change. \
Climate-ecological-economic model, conservationplanning, large marsh \ul grasshoper\ulnone , cultural landscapes, biodiversity conservation\},\
   author = \{Charlotte \ul Gerling\ulnone  and Martin \ul Drechsler\ulnone  and Klaus \ul Keuler\ulnone  and Johannes A. \ul Leins\ulnone  and \ul Kai\ulnone  \ul Radtke\ulnone  and \ul Bj\'c3\'b6rn\ulnone  Schulz and \ul Astrid\ulnone  \ul Sturm\ulnone  and Frank \ul W\'c3\'a4tzold\ulnone \},\
   institution = \{\ul MPRA\ulnone  Papers\},\
   title = \{costeffective conservation in the face of climate change: combining ecological-economic \ul modeling\ulnone  and climate science for the costeffective \ul spatio\ulnone -temporal allocation of conservation measures in agricultural landscapes\},\
   year = \{2021\},\
\}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Smith2002,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{Herein we examine the theory and practical limits of designing a voluntary incentive scheme to protect endangeredspecies on private land. We consider both an ex-ante scheme, in which a contract to the landholder depends only on what the landholder reports, and an ex-post scheme, in which a contract to the landholder depends on reports from all landowners. Except in special cases, the ex-ante scheme never implements the full information allocation, and can actually set aside too much land. In contrast, expected habitat size under the ex-post scheme is smaller than both the ex-ante and full information allocations.\},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Rodney B.W. Smith and Jason F. Shogren\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1006/JEEM.2000.1183\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Asymmetric information, endangeredspecies, Mechanism design\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{169-187\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Voluntary Incentive Design for endangeredspecies Protection\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{43\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2002\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 @article
\f1\b0 \cf3 \{Dyar2003,\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4    abstract = \{This paper explores economic aspects of reintroducing large, wide-ranging mammalian carnivores, such as wolves and grizzly bears, to their native habitats. The key tension is that such species can inflict transboundary damages for which managers are not liable with certainty. We show that this tension can be offset by the manager's judicious choice of habitat, as habitat contributes both directly to the likelihood of the species' survival (from a biological point of view) and indirectly as precautionary capital that partially mitigates damages. We show how uncertainty over liability for damages affects the likelihood of the species' survival, and we conclude with a discussion of optimal compensation mechanisms. \},\cf3 \
\cf4    author = \{Julie A. Dyar and Jeffrey Wagner\},\cf3 \
\cf4    doi = \{10.1016/S0095-0696(02)00057-8\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issn = \{0095-0696\},\cf3 \
\cf4    issue = \{2\},\cf3 \
\cf4    journal = \{Journal of Environmental Economics and Management\},\cf3 \
\cf4    keywords = \{Carnivores, Culpability, Endangered, Liability, Recovery, Reintroduction, Species, Transboundary, Wildlife, Wolves\},\cf3 \
\cf4    month = \{3\},\cf3 \
\cf4    pages = \{505-522\},\cf3 \
\cf4    publisher = \{Academic Press\},\cf3 \
\cf4    title = \{Uncertainty and species recovery program design\},\cf3 \
\cf4    volume = \{45\},\cf3 \
\cf4    year = \{2003\},\cf3 \
\cf4 \}\cf3 \
\cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
}